This is a three. It's sloppily written This is a three. It's sloppily written and rendered at an extremely low and rendered at an extremely low and rendered at an extremely low resolution of 28x 28 pixels. But your resolution of 28x 28 pixels. But your resolution of 28x 28 pixels. But your brain has no trouble recognizing it as a brain has no trouble recognizing it as a brain has no trouble recognizing it as a three. And I want you to take a moment three. And I want you to take a moment three. And I want you to take a moment to appreciate how crazy it is that to appreciate how crazy it is that to appreciate how crazy it is that brains can do this so effortlessly. I brains can do this so effortlessly. I brains can do this so effortlessly. I mean this, this, and this are also mean this, this, and this are also mean this, this, and this are also recognizable as threes. Even though the recognizable as threes. Even though the recognizable as threes. Even though the specific values of each pixel is very specific values of each pixel is very specific values of each pixel is very different from one image to the next, different from one image to the next, different from one image to the next, the particular light sensitive cells in the particular light sensitive cells in the particular light sensitive cells in your eye that are firing when you see your eye that are firing when you see your eye that are firing when you see this three are very different from the this three are very different from the this three are very different from the ones firing when you see this three. But ones firing when you see this three. But ones firing when you see this three. But something in that crazy smart visual something in that crazy smart visual something in that crazy smart visual cortex of yours resolves these as cortex of yours resolves these as cortex of yours resolves these as representing the same idea while at the representing the same idea while at the representing the same idea while at the same time recognizing other images as same time recognizing other images as same time recognizing other images as their own distinct ideas. But if I told their own distinct ideas. But if I told their own distinct ideas. But if I told you, hey, sit down and write for me a you, hey, sit down and write for me a you, hey, sit down and write for me a program that takes in a grid of 28x 28 program that takes in a grid of 28x 28 program that takes in a grid of 28x 28 pixels like this and outputs a single pixels like this and outputs a single pixels like this and outputs a single number between 0 and 10, telling you number between 0 and 10, telling you number between 0 and 10, telling you what it thinks the digit is. While the what it thinks the digit is. While the what it thinks the digit is. While the task goes from comically trivial to task goes from comically trivial to task goes from comically trivial to dauntingly difficult, unless you've been dauntingly difficult, unless you've been dauntingly difficult, unless you've been living under a rock, I think I hardly living under a rock, I think I hardly living under a rock, I think I hardly need to motivate the relevance and need to motivate the relevance and need to motivate the relevance and importance of machine learning and importance of machine learning and importance of machine learning and neural networks to the present and to neural networks to the present and to neural networks to the present and to the future. But what I want to do here the future. But what I want to do here the future. But what I want to do here is show you what a neural network is show you what a neural network is show you what a neural network actually is, assuming no background, and actually is, assuming no background, and actually is, assuming no background, and to help visualize what it's doing, not to help visualize what it's doing, not to help visualize what it's doing, not as a buzzword, but as a piece of math. as a buzzword, but as a piece of math. as a buzzword, but as a piece of math. My hope is just that you come away My hope is just that you come away My hope is just that you come away feeling like the structure itself is feeling like the structure itself is feeling like the structure itself is motivated and to feel like you know what motivated and to feel like you know what motivated and to feel like you know what it means when you read or you hear about it means when you read or you hear about it means when you read or you hear about a neural network, quote unquote, a neural network, quote unquote, a neural network, quote unquote, learning. This video is just going to be learning. This video is just going to be learning. This video is just going to be devoted to the structure component of devoted to the structure component of devoted to the structure component of that. And the following one is going to that. And the following one is going to that. And the following one is going to tackle learning. What we're going to do tackle learning. What we're going to do tackle learning. What we're going to do is put together a neural network that is put together a neural network that is put together a neural network that can learn to recognize handwritten can learn to recognize handwritten can learn to recognize handwritten digits. This is a somewhat classic example for This is a somewhat classic example for introducing the topic. And I'm happy to introducing the topic. And I'm happy to introducing the topic. And I'm happy to stick with the status quo here because stick with the status quo here because stick with the status quo here because at the end of the two videos, I want to at the end of the two videos, I want to at the end of the two videos, I want to point you to a couple good resources point you to a couple good resources point you to a couple good resources where you can learn more and where you where you can learn more and where you where you can learn more and where you can download the code that does this and can download the code that does this and can download the code that does this and play with it on your own computer. play with it on your own computer. play with it on your own computer. There are many many variants of neural There are many many variants of neural There are many many variants of neural networks and in recent years there's networks and in recent years there's networks and in recent years there's been sort of a boom in research towards been sort of a boom in research towards been sort of a boom in research towards these variants. But in these two these variants. But in these two these variants. But in these two introductory videos, you and I are just introductory videos, you and I are just introductory videos, you and I are just going to look at the simplest plain going to look at the simplest plain going to look at the simplest plain vanilla form with no added frills. This vanilla form with no added frills. This vanilla form with no added frills. This is kind of a necessary prerequisite for is kind of a necessary prerequisite for is kind of a necessary prerequisite for understanding any of the more powerful understanding any of the more powerful understanding any of the more powerful modern variants. And trust me, it still modern variants. And trust me, it still modern variants. And trust me, it still has plenty of complexity for us to wrap has plenty of complexity for us to wrap has plenty of complexity for us to wrap our minds around. But even in this our minds around. But even in this our minds around. But even in this simplest form, it can learn to recognize simplest form, it can learn to recognize simplest form, it can learn to recognize handwritten digits, which is a pretty handwritten digits, which is a pretty handwritten digits, which is a pretty cool thing for a computer to be able to cool thing for a computer to be able to cool thing for a computer to be able to do. And at the same time, you'll see how do. And at the same time, you'll see how do. And at the same time, you'll see how it does fall short of a couple hopes it does fall short of a couple hopes it does fall short of a couple hopes that we might have for it. that we might have for it. that we might have for it. As the name suggests, neural networks As the name suggests, neural networks As the name suggests, neural networks are inspired by the brain. But let's are inspired by the brain. But let's are inspired by the brain. But let's break that down. What are the neurons, break that down. What are the neurons, break that down. What are the neurons, and in what sense are they linked and in what sense are they linked and in what sense are they linked together? Right now, when I say neuron, together? Right now, when I say neuron, together? Right now, when I say neuron, all I want you to think about is a thing all I want you to think about is a thing all I want you to think about is a thing that holds a number. specifically a that holds a number. specifically a that holds a number. specifically a number between zero and one. It's really number between zero and one. It's really number between zero and one. It's really not more than that. not more than that. not more than that. For example, the network starts with a For example, the network starts with a For example, the network starts with a bunch of neurons corresponding to each bunch of neurons corresponding to each bunch of neurons corresponding to each of the 28 * 28 pixels of the input of the 28 * 28 pixels of the input of the 28 * 28 pixels of the input image, which is 784 neurons in total. image, which is 784 neurons in total. image, which is 784 neurons in total. Each one of these holds a number that Each one of these holds a number that Each one of these holds a number that represents the grayscale value of the represents the grayscale value of the represents the grayscale value of the corresponding pixel, ranging from zero corresponding pixel, ranging from zero corresponding pixel, ranging from zero for black pixels up to one for white for black pixels up to one for white for black pixels up to one for white pixels. This number inside the neuron is pixels. This number inside the neuron is pixels. This number inside the neuron is called its activation. And the image you called its activation. And the image you called its activation. And the image you might have in mind here is that each might have in mind here is that each might have in mind here is that each neuron is lit up when its activation is neuron is lit up when its activation is neuron is lit up when its activation is a high number. a high number. a high number. So all of these 784 neurons make up the So all of these 784 neurons make up the So all of these 784 neurons make up the first layer of our network. Now jumping over to the last layer. This Now jumping over to the last layer. This has 10 neurons each representing one of has 10 neurons each representing one of has 10 neurons each representing one of the digits. The activation in these the digits. The activation in these the digits. The activation in these neurons, again, some number that's neurons, again, some number that's neurons, again, some number that's between 0 and 1, represents how much the between 0 and 1, represents how much the between 0 and 1, represents how much the system thinks that a given image system thinks that a given image system thinks that a given image corresponds with a given digit. There's corresponds with a given digit. There's corresponds with a given digit. There's also a couple layers in between called also a couple layers in between called also a couple layers in between called the hidden layers, which for the time the hidden layers, which for the time the hidden layers, which for the time being should just be a giant question being should just be a giant question being should just be a giant question mark for how on earth this process of mark for how on earth this process of mark for how on earth this process of recognizing digits is going to be recognizing digits is going to be recognizing digits is going to be handled. In this network, I chose two handled. In this network, I chose two handled. In this network, I chose two hidden layers, each one with 16 neurons. hidden layers, each one with 16 neurons. hidden layers, each one with 16 neurons. And admittedly, that's kind of an And admittedly, that's kind of an And admittedly, that's kind of an arbitrary choice to be honest. I chose arbitrary choice to be honest. I chose arbitrary choice to be honest. I chose two layers based on how I want to two layers based on how I want to two layers based on how I want to motivate the structure in just a moment. motivate the structure in just a moment. motivate the structure in just a moment. And 16, well, that was just a nice And 16, well, that was just a nice And 16, well, that was just a nice number to fit on the screen. In number to fit on the screen. In number to fit on the screen. In practice, there is a lot of room for practice, there is a lot of room for practice, there is a lot of room for experiment with a specific structure experiment with a specific structure experiment with a specific structure here. The way the network operates, here. The way the network operates, here. The way the network operates, activations in one layer determine the activations in one layer determine the activations in one layer determine the activations of the next layer. And of activations of the next layer. And of activations of the next layer. And of course, the heart of the network as an course, the heart of the network as an course, the heart of the network as an information processing mechanism comes information processing mechanism comes information processing mechanism comes down to exactly how those activations down to exactly how those activations down to exactly how those activations from one layer bring about activations from one layer bring about activations from one layer bring about activations in the next layer. It's meant to be in the next layer. It's meant to be in the next layer. It's meant to be loosely analogous to how in biological loosely analogous to how in biological loosely analogous to how in biological networks of neurons, some groups of networks of neurons, some groups of networks of neurons, some groups of neurons firing cause certain others to neurons firing cause certain others to neurons firing cause certain others to fire. Now, the network I'm showing here fire. Now, the network I'm showing here fire. Now, the network I'm showing here has already been trained to recognize has already been trained to recognize has already been trained to recognize digits. And let me show you what I mean digits. And let me show you what I mean digits. And let me show you what I mean by that. It means if you feed in an by that. It means if you feed in an by that. It means if you feed in an image lighting up all 784 neurons of the image lighting up all 784 neurons of the image lighting up all 784 neurons of the input layer according to the brightness input layer according to the brightness input layer according to the brightness of each pixel in the image, that pattern of each pixel in the image, that pattern of each pixel in the image, that pattern of activations causes some very specific of activations causes some very specific of activations causes some very specific pattern in the next layer, which causes pattern in the next layer, which causes pattern in the next layer, which causes some pattern in the one after it, which some pattern in the one after it, which some pattern in the one after it, which finally gives some pattern in the output finally gives some pattern in the output finally gives some pattern in the output layer. And the brightest neuron of that layer. And the brightest neuron of that layer. And the brightest neuron of that output layer is the network's choice, so output layer is the network's choice, so output layer is the network's choice, so to speak, for what digit this image to speak, for what digit this image to speak, for what digit this image represents. And before jumping into the math for how And before jumping into the math for how one layer influences the next or how one layer influences the next or how one layer influences the next or how training works, let's just talk about training works, let's just talk about training works, let's just talk about why it's even reasonable to expect a why it's even reasonable to expect a why it's even reasonable to expect a layered structure like this to behave layered structure like this to behave layered structure like this to behave intelligently. What are we expecting intelligently. What are we expecting intelligently. What are we expecting here? What is the best hope for what here? What is the best hope for what here? What is the best hope for what those middle layers might be doing? those middle layers might be doing? those middle layers might be doing? Well, when you or I recognize digits, we Well, when you or I recognize digits, we Well, when you or I recognize digits, we piece together various components. A 9 piece together various components. A 9 piece together various components. A 9 has a loop up top and a line on the has a loop up top and a line on the has a loop up top and a line on the right. An eight also has a loop up top, right. An eight also has a loop up top, right. An eight also has a loop up top, but it's paired with another loop down but it's paired with another loop down but it's paired with another loop down low. A four basically breaks down into low. A four basically breaks down into low. A four basically breaks down into three specific lines and things like three specific lines and things like three specific lines and things like that. Now, in a perfect world, we might that. Now, in a perfect world, we might that. Now, in a perfect world, we might hope that each neuron in the second to hope that each neuron in the second to hope that each neuron in the second to last layer corresponds with one of these last layer corresponds with one of these last layer corresponds with one of these subcomponents. That anytime you feed in subcomponents. That anytime you feed in subcomponents. That anytime you feed in an image with, say, a loop up top, like an image with, say, a loop up top, like an image with, say, a loop up top, like a 9 or an 8, there's some specific a 9 or an 8, there's some specific a 9 or an 8, there's some specific neuron whose activation is going to be neuron whose activation is going to be neuron whose activation is going to be close to one. And I don't mean this close to one. And I don't mean this close to one. And I don't mean this specific loop of pixels. The hope would specific loop of pixels. The hope would specific loop of pixels. The hope would be that any generally loopy pattern be that any generally loopy pattern be that any generally loopy pattern towards the top sets off this neuron. towards the top sets off this neuron. towards the top sets off this neuron. That way, going from the third layer to That way, going from the third layer to That way, going from the third layer to the last one just requires learning the last one just requires learning the last one just requires learning which combination of subcomponents which combination of subcomponents which combination of subcomponents corresponds to which digits. Of course, corresponds to which digits. Of course, corresponds to which digits. Of course, that just kicks the problem down the that just kicks the problem down the that just kicks the problem down the road because how would you recognize road because how would you recognize road because how would you recognize these subcomponents or even learn what these subcomponents or even learn what these subcomponents or even learn what the right subcomponents should be? And I the right subcomponents should be? And I the right subcomponents should be? And I still haven't even talked about how one still haven't even talked about how one still haven't even talked about how one layer influences the next. But run with layer influences the next. But run with layer influences the next. But run with me on this one for a moment. Recognizing me on this one for a moment. Recognizing me on this one for a moment. Recognizing a loop can also break down into subpros. a loop can also break down into subpros. a loop can also break down into subpros. One reasonable way to do this would be One reasonable way to do this would be One reasonable way to do this would be to first recognize the various little to first recognize the various little to first recognize the various little edges that make it up. Similarly, a long edges that make it up. Similarly, a long edges that make it up. Similarly, a long line like the kind you might see in the line like the kind you might see in the line like the kind you might see in the digits 1 or four or seven. Well, that's digits 1 or four or seven. Well, that's digits 1 or four or seven. Well, that's really just a long edge. Or maybe you really just a long edge. Or maybe you really just a long edge. Or maybe you think of it as a certain pattern of think of it as a certain pattern of think of it as a certain pattern of several smaller edges. So maybe our hope several smaller edges. So maybe our hope several smaller edges. So maybe our hope is that each neuron in the second layer is that each neuron in the second layer is that each neuron in the second layer of the network corresponds with the of the network corresponds with the of the network corresponds with the various relevant little edges. Maybe various relevant little edges. Maybe various relevant little edges. Maybe when an image like this one comes in, it when an image like this one comes in, it when an image like this one comes in, it lights up all of the neurons associated lights up all of the neurons associated lights up all of the neurons associated with around 8 to 10 specific little with around 8 to 10 specific little with around 8 to 10 specific little edges, which in turn lights up the edges, which in turn lights up the edges, which in turn lights up the neurons associated with the upper loop neurons associated with the upper loop neurons associated with the upper loop and a long vertical line, and those and a long vertical line, and those and a long vertical line, and those light up the neuron associated with a light up the neuron associated with a light up the neuron associated with a nine. Whether or not this is what our nine. Whether or not this is what our nine. Whether or not this is what our final network actually does is another final network actually does is another final network actually does is another question, one that I'll come back to question, one that I'll come back to question, one that I'll come back to once we see how to train the network. once we see how to train the network. once we see how to train the network. But this is a hope that we might have a But this is a hope that we might have a But this is a hope that we might have a sort of goal with the layered structure sort of goal with the layered structure sort of goal with the layered structure like this. Moreover, you can imagine how like this. Moreover, you can imagine how like this. Moreover, you can imagine how being able to detect edges and patterns being able to detect edges and patterns being able to detect edges and patterns like this would be really useful for like this would be really useful for like this would be really useful for other image recognition tasks. And even other image recognition tasks. And even other image recognition tasks. And even beyond image recognition, there are all beyond image recognition, there are all beyond image recognition, there are all sorts of intelligent things you might sorts of intelligent things you might sorts of intelligent things you might want to do that break down into layers want to do that break down into layers want to do that break down into layers of abstraction. Parsing speech, for of abstraction. Parsing speech, for of abstraction. Parsing speech, for example, involves taking raw audio and example, involves taking raw audio and example, involves taking raw audio and picking out distinct sounds which picking out distinct sounds which picking out distinct sounds which combine to make certain syllables, which combine to make certain syllables, which combine to make certain syllables, which combine to form words, which combine to combine to form words, which combine to combine to form words, which combine to make up phrases and more abstract make up phrases and more abstract make up phrases and more abstract thoughts, etc. But getting back to how thoughts, etc. But getting back to how thoughts, etc. But getting back to how any of this actually works, picture any of this actually works, picture any of this actually works, picture yourself right now designing how exactly yourself right now designing how exactly yourself right now designing how exactly the activations in one layer might the activations in one layer might the activations in one layer might determine the activations in the next. determine the activations in the next. determine the activations in the next. The goal is to have some mechanism that The goal is to have some mechanism that The goal is to have some mechanism that could conceivably combine pixels into could conceivably combine pixels into could conceivably combine pixels into edges or edges into patterns or patterns edges or edges into patterns or patterns edges or edges into patterns or patterns into digits. And to zoom in on one very into digits. And to zoom in on one very into digits. And to zoom in on one very specific example, let's say the hope is specific example, let's say the hope is specific example, let's say the hope is for one particular neuron in the second for one particular neuron in the second for one particular neuron in the second layer to pick up on whether or not the layer to pick up on whether or not the layer to pick up on whether or not the image has an edge in this region here. image has an edge in this region here. image has an edge in this region here. The question at hand is what parameters The question at hand is what parameters The question at hand is what parameters should the network have? What dials and should the network have? What dials and should the network have? What dials and knobs should you be able to tweak so knobs should you be able to tweak so knobs should you be able to tweak so that it's expressive enough to that it's expressive enough to that it's expressive enough to potentially capture this pattern or any potentially capture this pattern or any potentially capture this pattern or any other pixel pattern or the pattern that other pixel pattern or the pattern that other pixel pattern or the pattern that several edges can make a loop and other several edges can make a loop and other several edges can make a loop and other such things. Well, what we'll do is such things. Well, what we'll do is such things. Well, what we'll do is assign a weight to each one of the assign a weight to each one of the assign a weight to each one of the connections between our neuron and the connections between our neuron and the connections between our neuron and the neurons from the first layer. These neurons from the first layer. These neurons from the first layer. These weights are just numbers. Then take all weights are just numbers. Then take all weights are just numbers. Then take all of those activations from the first of those activations from the first of those activations from the first layer and compute their weighted sum layer and compute their weighted sum layer and compute their weighted sum according to these weights. according to these weights. according to these weights. I find it helpful to think of these I find it helpful to think of these I find it helpful to think of these weights as being organized into a little weights as being organized into a little weights as being organized into a little grid of their own. And I'm going to use grid of their own. And I'm going to use grid of their own. And I'm going to use green pixels to indicate positive green pixels to indicate positive green pixels to indicate positive weights and red pixels to indicate weights and red pixels to indicate weights and red pixels to indicate negative weights where the brightness of negative weights where the brightness of negative weights where the brightness of that pixel is some loose depiction of that pixel is some loose depiction of that pixel is some loose depiction of the weights value. Now, if we made the the weights value. Now, if we made the the weights value. Now, if we made the weights associated with almost all of weights associated with almost all of weights associated with almost all of the pixels zero, except for some the pixels zero, except for some the pixels zero, except for some positive weights in this region that we positive weights in this region that we positive weights in this region that we care about, then taking the weighted sum care about, then taking the weighted sum care about, then taking the weighted sum of all the pixel values really just of all the pixel values really just of all the pixel values really just amounts to adding up the values of the amounts to adding up the values of the amounts to adding up the values of the pixel just in the region that we care pixel just in the region that we care pixel just in the region that we care about. about. about. And if you really wanted to pick up on And if you really wanted to pick up on And if you really wanted to pick up on whether there's an edge here, what you whether there's an edge here, what you whether there's an edge here, what you might do is have some negative weights might do is have some negative weights might do is have some negative weights associated with the surrounding pixels. associated with the surrounding pixels. associated with the surrounding pixels. Then the sum is largest when those Then the sum is largest when those Then the sum is largest when those middle pixels are bright but the middle pixels are bright but the middle pixels are bright but the surrounding pixels are darker. surrounding pixels are darker. surrounding pixels are darker. When you compute a weighted sum like When you compute a weighted sum like When you compute a weighted sum like this, you might come out with any this, you might come out with any this, you might come out with any number. But for this network, what we number. But for this network, what we number. But for this network, what we want is for activations to be some value want is for activations to be some value want is for activations to be some value between 0 and 1. So a common thing to do between 0 and 1. So a common thing to do between 0 and 1. So a common thing to do is to pump this weighted sum into some is to pump this weighted sum into some is to pump this weighted sum into some function that squishes the real number function that squishes the real number function that squishes the real number line into the range between 0 and 1. And line into the range between 0 and 1. And line into the range between 0 and 1. And a common function that does this is a common function that does this is a common function that does this is called the sigmoid function, also known called the sigmoid function, also known called the sigmoid function, also known as a logistic curve. Basically, very as a logistic curve. Basically, very as a logistic curve. Basically, very negative inputs end up close to zero, negative inputs end up close to zero, negative inputs end up close to zero, very positive inputs end up close to very positive inputs end up close to very positive inputs end up close to one, and it just steadily increases one, and it just steadily increases one, and it just steadily increases around the input zero. So, the activation of the neuron here is So, the activation of the neuron here is basically a measure of how positive the basically a measure of how positive the basically a measure of how positive the relevant weighted sum is. relevant weighted sum is. relevant weighted sum is. But maybe it's not that you want the But maybe it's not that you want the But maybe it's not that you want the neuron to light up when the weighted sum neuron to light up when the weighted sum neuron to light up when the weighted sum is bigger than zero. Maybe you only want is bigger than zero. Maybe you only want is bigger than zero. Maybe you only want it to be active when the sum is bigger it to be active when the sum is bigger it to be active when the sum is bigger than say 10. That is you want some bias than say 10. That is you want some bias than say 10. That is you want some bias for it to be inactive. for it to be inactive. for it to be inactive. What we'll do then is just add in some What we'll do then is just add in some What we'll do then is just add in some other number like -10 to this weighted other number like -10 to this weighted other number like -10 to this weighted sum before plugging it through the sum before plugging it through the sum before plugging it through the sigmoid squishification function. That sigmoid squishification function. That sigmoid squishification function. That additional number is called the bias. So additional number is called the bias. So additional number is called the bias. So the weights tell you what pixel pattern the weights tell you what pixel pattern the weights tell you what pixel pattern this neuron in the second layer is this neuron in the second layer is this neuron in the second layer is picking up on and the bias tells you how picking up on and the bias tells you how picking up on and the bias tells you how high the weighted sum needs to be before high the weighted sum needs to be before high the weighted sum needs to be before the neuron starts getting meaningfully the neuron starts getting meaningfully the neuron starts getting meaningfully active. And that is just one neuron. active. And that is just one neuron. active. And that is just one neuron. Every other neuron in this layer is Every other neuron in this layer is Every other neuron in this layer is going to be connected to all 784 pixel going to be connected to all 784 pixel going to be connected to all 784 pixel neurons from the first layer. And each neurons from the first layer. And each neurons from the first layer. And each one of those 784 connections has its own one of those 784 connections has its own one of those 784 connections has its own weight associated with it. Also, each weight associated with it. Also, each weight associated with it. Also, each one has some bias, some other number one has some bias, some other number one has some bias, some other number that you add on to the weighted sum that you add on to the weighted sum that you add on to the weighted sum before squishing it with the sigmoid. before squishing it with the sigmoid. before squishing it with the sigmoid. And that's a lot to think about. With And that's a lot to think about. With And that's a lot to think about. With this hidden layer of 16 neurons, that's this hidden layer of 16 neurons, that's this hidden layer of 16 neurons, that's a total of 784* a total of 784* a total of 784* 16 weights along with 16 biases. And all 16 weights along with 16 biases. And all 16 weights along with 16 biases. And all of that is just the connections from the of that is just the connections from the of that is just the connections from the first layer to the second. The first layer to the second. The first layer to the second. The connections between the other layers connections between the other layers connections between the other layers also have a bunch of weights and biases also have a bunch of weights and biases also have a bunch of weights and biases associated with them. All said and done, associated with them. All said and done, associated with them. All said and done, this network has almost exactly 13,000 this network has almost exactly 13,000 this network has almost exactly 13,000 total weights and biases. 13,000 knobs total weights and biases. 13,000 knobs total weights and biases. 13,000 knobs and dials that can be tweaked and turned and dials that can be tweaked and turned and dials that can be tweaked and turned to make this network behave in different to make this network behave in different to make this network behave in different ways. So when we talk about learning, ways. So when we talk about learning, ways. So when we talk about learning, what that's referring to is getting the what that's referring to is getting the what that's referring to is getting the computer to find a valid setting for all computer to find a valid setting for all computer to find a valid setting for all of these many, many numbers so that of these many, many numbers so that of these many, many numbers so that it'll actually solve the problem at it'll actually solve the problem at it'll actually solve the problem at hand. hand. hand. One thought experiment that is at once One thought experiment that is at once One thought experiment that is at once fun and kind of horrifying is to imagine fun and kind of horrifying is to imagine fun and kind of horrifying is to imagine sitting down and setting all of these sitting down and setting all of these sitting down and setting all of these weights and biases by hand, purposefully weights and biases by hand, purposefully weights and biases by hand, purposefully tweaking the numbers so that the second tweaking the numbers so that the second tweaking the numbers so that the second layer picks up on edges, the third layer layer picks up on edges, the third layer layer picks up on edges, the third layer picks up on patterns, etc. I personally picks up on patterns, etc. I personally picks up on patterns, etc. I personally find this satisfying rather than just find this satisfying rather than just find this satisfying rather than just treating the network as a total black treating the network as a total black treating the network as a total black box. Because when the network doesn't box. Because when the network doesn't box. Because when the network doesn't perform the way you anticipate, if perform the way you anticipate, if perform the way you anticipate, if you've built up a little bit of a you've built up a little bit of a you've built up a little bit of a relationship with what those weights and relationship with what those weights and relationship with what those weights and biases actually mean, you have a biases actually mean, you have a biases actually mean, you have a starting place for experimenting with starting place for experimenting with starting place for experimenting with how to change the structure to improve how to change the structure to improve how to change the structure to improve or when the network does work, but not or when the network does work, but not or when the network does work, but not for the reasons you might expect. for the reasons you might expect. for the reasons you might expect. Digging into what the weights and biases Digging into what the weights and biases Digging into what the weights and biases are doing is a good way to challenge are doing is a good way to challenge are doing is a good way to challenge your assumptions and really expose the your assumptions and really expose the your assumptions and really expose the full space of possible solutions. By the full space of possible solutions. By the full space of possible solutions. By the way, the actual function here is a way, the actual function here is a way, the actual function here is a little cumbersome to write down, don't little cumbersome to write down, don't little cumbersome to write down, don't you think? you think? you think? So, let me show you a more notationally So, let me show you a more notationally So, let me show you a more notationally compact way that these connections are compact way that these connections are compact way that these connections are represented. This is how you'd see it if represented. This is how you'd see it if represented. This is how you'd see it if you choose to read up more about neural you choose to read up more about neural you choose to read up more about neural networks. Organize all of the networks. Organize all of the networks. Organize all of the activations from one layer into a column activations from one layer into a column activations from one layer into a column as a vector. as a vector. as a vector. Then, organize all of the weights as a Then, organize all of the weights as a Then, organize all of the weights as a matrix where each row of that matrix matrix where each row of that matrix matrix where each row of that matrix corresponds to the connections between corresponds to the connections between corresponds to the connections between one layer and a particular neuron in the one layer and a particular neuron in the one layer and a particular neuron in the next layer. What that means is that next layer. What that means is that next layer. What that means is that taking the weighted sum of the taking the weighted sum of the taking the weighted sum of the activations in the first layer according activations in the first layer according activations in the first layer according to these weights corresponds to one of to these weights corresponds to one of to these weights corresponds to one of the terms in the matrix vector product the terms in the matrix vector product the terms in the matrix vector product of everything we have on the left here. By the way, so much of machine learning By the way, so much of machine learning just comes down to having a good grasp just comes down to having a good grasp just comes down to having a good grasp of linear algebra. So for any of you who of linear algebra. So for any of you who of linear algebra. So for any of you who want a nice visual understanding for want a nice visual understanding for want a nice visual understanding for matrices and what matrix vector matrices and what matrix vector matrices and what matrix vector multiplication means, take a look at the multiplication means, take a look at the multiplication means, take a look at the series I did on linear algebra, series I did on linear algebra, series I did on linear algebra, especially chapter 3. Back to our especially chapter 3. Back to our especially chapter 3. Back to our expression, instead of talking about expression, instead of talking about expression, instead of talking about adding the bias to each one of these adding the bias to each one of these adding the bias to each one of these values independently, we represent it by values independently, we represent it by values independently, we represent it by organizing all those biases into a organizing all those biases into a organizing all those biases into a vector and adding the entire vector to vector and adding the entire vector to vector and adding the entire vector to the previous matrix vector product. Then the previous matrix vector product. Then the previous matrix vector product. Then as a final step, I'll wrap a sigmoid as a final step, I'll wrap a sigmoid as a final step, I'll wrap a sigmoid around the outside here. And what that's around the outside here. And what that's around the outside here. And what that's supposed to represent is that you're supposed to represent is that you're supposed to represent is that you're going to apply the sigmoid function to going to apply the sigmoid function to going to apply the sigmoid function to each specific component of the resulting each specific component of the resulting each specific component of the resulting vector inside. vector inside. vector inside. So once you write down this weight So once you write down this weight So once you write down this weight matrix and these vectors as their own matrix and these vectors as their own matrix and these vectors as their own symbols, you can communicate the full symbols, you can communicate the full symbols, you can communicate the full transition of activations from one layer transition of activations from one layer transition of activations from one layer to the next in an extremely tight and to the next in an extremely tight and to the next in an extremely tight and neat little expression. And this makes neat little expression. And this makes neat little expression. And this makes the relevant code both a lot simpler and the relevant code both a lot simpler and the relevant code both a lot simpler and a lot faster since many libraries a lot faster since many libraries a lot faster since many libraries optimize the heck out of matrix optimize the heck out of matrix optimize the heck out of matrix multiplication. multiplication. multiplication. Remember Remember Remember how earlier I said these neurons are how earlier I said these neurons are how earlier I said these neurons are simply things that hold numbers? Well, simply things that hold numbers? Well, simply things that hold numbers? Well, of course, the specific numbers that of course, the specific numbers that of course, the specific numbers that they hold depends on the image you feed they hold depends on the image you feed they hold depends on the image you feed in. in. in. So, it's actually more accurate to think So, it's actually more accurate to think So, it's actually more accurate to think of each neuron as a function. One that of each neuron as a function. One that of each neuron as a function. One that takes in the outputs of all the neurons takes in the outputs of all the neurons takes in the outputs of all the neurons in the previous layer and spits out a in the previous layer and spits out a in the previous layer and spits out a number between 0 and 1. Really, the number between 0 and 1. Really, the number between 0 and 1. Really, the entire network is just a function. one entire network is just a function. one entire network is just a function. one that takes in 784 numbers as an input that takes in 784 numbers as an input that takes in 784 numbers as an input and spits out 10 numbers as an output. and spits out 10 numbers as an output. and spits out 10 numbers as an output. It's an absurdly complicated function, It's an absurdly complicated function, It's an absurdly complicated function, one that involves 13,000 parameters in one that involves 13,000 parameters in one that involves 13,000 parameters in the forms of these weights and biases the forms of these weights and biases the forms of these weights and biases that pick up on certain patterns and that pick up on certain patterns and that pick up on certain patterns and which involves iterating many matrix which involves iterating many matrix which involves iterating many matrix vector products and the sigmoid vector products and the sigmoid vector products and the sigmoid squishification function. But it's just squishification function. But it's just squishification function. But it's just a function nonetheless. And in a way, a function nonetheless. And in a way, a function nonetheless. And in a way, it's kind of reassuring that it looks it's kind of reassuring that it looks it's kind of reassuring that it looks complicated. I mean, if it were any complicated. I mean, if it were any complicated. I mean, if it were any simpler, what hope would we have that it simpler, what hope would we have that it simpler, what hope would we have that it could take on the challenge of could take on the challenge of could take on the challenge of recognizing digits? And how does it take recognizing digits? And how does it take recognizing digits? And how does it take on that challenge? How does this network on that challenge? How does this network on that challenge? How does this network learn the appropriate weights and biases learn the appropriate weights and biases learn the appropriate weights and biases just by looking at data? Well, that's just by looking at data? Well, that's just by looking at data? Well, that's what I'll show in the next video. And what I'll show in the next video. And what I'll show in the next video. And I'll also dig a little more into what I'll also dig a little more into what I'll also dig a little more into what this particular network we're seeing is this particular network we're seeing is this particular network we're seeing is really doing. really doing. really doing. Now is the point I suppose I should say Now is the point I suppose I should say Now is the point I suppose I should say subscribe to stay notified about when subscribe to stay notified about when subscribe to stay notified about when that video or any new videos come out. that video or any new videos come out. that video or any new videos come out. But realistically, most of you don't But realistically, most of you don't But realistically, most of you don't actually receive notifications from actually receive notifications from actually receive notifications from YouTube, do you? Maybe more honestly, I YouTube, do you? Maybe more honestly, I YouTube, do you? Maybe more honestly, I should say subscribe so that the neural should say subscribe so that the neural should say subscribe so that the neural networks that underly YouTube's networks that underly YouTube's networks that underly YouTube's recommendation algorithm are primed to recommendation algorithm are primed to recommendation algorithm are primed to believe that you want to see content believe that you want to see content believe that you want to see content from this channel get recommended to from this channel get recommended to from this channel get recommended to you. Anyway, stay posted for more. Thank you. Anyway, stay posted for more. Thank you. Anyway, stay posted for more. Thank you very much to everyone supporting you very much to everyone supporting you very much to everyone supporting these videos on Patreon. I've been a these videos on Patreon. I've been a these videos on Patreon. I've been a little slow to progress in the little slow to progress in the little slow to progress in the probability series this summer, but I'm probability series this summer, but I'm probability series this summer, but I'm jumping back into it after this project. jumping back into it after this project. jumping back into it after this project. So, patrons, you can look out for So, patrons, you can look out for So, patrons, you can look out for updates there. updates there. updates there. To close things off here, I have with me To close things off here, I have with me To close things off here, I have with me Leysa Lee, who did her PhD work on the Leysa Lee, who did her PhD work on the Leysa Lee, who did her PhD work on the theoretical side of deep learning and theoretical side of deep learning and theoretical side of deep learning and who currently works at a venture capital who currently works at a venture capital who currently works at a venture capital firm called Amplify Partners, who kindly firm called Amplify Partners, who kindly firm called Amplify Partners, who kindly provided some of the funding for this provided some of the funding for this provided some of the funding for this video. So, Leysa, one thing I think we video. So, Leysa, one thing I think we video. So, Leysa, one thing I think we should quickly bring up is this sigmoid should quickly bring up is this sigmoid should quickly bring up is this sigmoid function. As I understand it, early function. As I understand it, early function. As I understand it, early networks used this to squish the networks used this to squish the networks used this to squish the relevant weighted sum into that interval relevant weighted sum into that interval relevant weighted sum into that interval between 0 and one. You know, kind of between 0 and one. You know, kind of between 0 and one. You know, kind of motivated by this biological analogy of motivated by this biological analogy of motivated by this biological analogy of neurons either being inactive or active. neurons either being inactive or active. neurons either being inactive or active. Exactly. But relatively few modern Exactly. But relatively few modern Exactly. But relatively few modern networks actually use sigmoid anymore. networks actually use sigmoid anymore. networks actually use sigmoid anymore. That's kind of old school, right? That's kind of old school, right? That's kind of old school, right? Yeah. Or rather, relu seems to be much Yeah. Or rather, relu seems to be much Yeah. Or rather, relu seems to be much easier to train. easier to train. easier to train. And relu relu stands for rectified And relu relu stands for rectified And relu relu stands for rectified linear unit. linear unit. linear unit. Yes. It's this kind of function where Yes. It's this kind of function where Yes. It's this kind of function where you're just taking a max of zero and a you're just taking a max of zero and a you're just taking a max of zero and a where a is given by what you were where a is given by what you were where a is given by what you were explaining in the video. And what this explaining in the video. And what this explaining in the video. And what this was sort of motivated from, I think, was was sort of motivated from, I think, was was sort of motivated from, I think, was a partially by a biological analogy with a partially by a biological analogy with a partially by a biological analogy with how neurons would either be activated or how neurons would either be activated or how neurons would either be activated or not. And so if it passes a certain not. And so if it passes a certain not. And so if it passes a certain threshold, it would be the identity threshold, it would be the identity threshold, it would be the identity function, but if it did not, then it function, but if it did not, then it function, but if it did not, then it would just not be activated. So be zero. would just not be activated. So be zero. would just not be activated. So be zero. So it's kind of a simplification. Using So it's kind of a simplification. Using So it's kind of a simplification. Using sigmoids didn't help training or it was sigmoids didn't help training or it was sigmoids didn't help training or it was very difficult to train at at some very difficult to train at at some very difficult to train at at some point. and people just tried ReLU and it point. and people just tried ReLU and it point. and people just tried ReLU and it happened to work very well for these happened to work very well for these happened to work very well for these incredibly um deep uh neural networks. incredibly um deep uh neural networks. incredibly um deep uh neural networks. All right, thank you Alicia.
last video I laid out the structure of a last video I laid out the structure of a neural network I'll give a quick recap neural network I'll give a quick recap neural network I'll give a quick recap here just so that it's fresh in our here just so that it's fresh in our here just so that it's fresh in our minds and then I have two main goals for minds and then I have two main goals for minds and then I have two main goals for this video the first is to introduce the this video the first is to introduce the this video the first is to introduce the idea of gradient descent which underlies idea of gradient descent which underlies idea of gradient descent which underlies not only how neural networks learn but not only how neural networks learn but not only how neural networks learn but how a lot of other machine learning how a lot of other machine learning how a lot of other machine learning works as well then after that we're works as well then after that we're works as well then after that we're going to dig in a little more to how going to dig in a little more to how going to dig in a little more to how this particular Network performs and this particular Network performs and this particular Network performs and what those hidden layers of neurons end what those hidden layers of neurons end what those hidden layers of neurons end up actually looking up actually looking up actually looking for as a reminder our goal here is the for as a reminder our goal here is the for as a reminder our goal here is the classic example of handwritten digit classic example of handwritten digit classic example of handwritten digit recognition the hello world of neural recognition the hello world of neural recognition the hello world of neural networks these digits are rendered on a networks these digits are rendered on a networks these digits are rendered on a 28x 28 pixel grid each pixel with some 28x 28 pixel grid each pixel with some 28x 28 pixel grid each pixel with some grayscale value between 0 and 1 those grayscale value between 0 and 1 those grayscale value between 0 and 1 those are what determine the activations of are what determine the activations of are what determine the activations of 784 neurons in the input layer of the 784 neurons in the input layer of the 784 neurons in the input layer of the network and then the activation for each network and then the activation for each network and then the activation for each neuron in the following layers is based neuron in the following layers is based neuron in the following layers is based on a weighted sum of all the activations on a weighted sum of all the activations on a weighted sum of all the activations in the previous layer plus some special in the previous layer plus some special in the previous layer plus some special number called a number called a number called a bias then you compose that sum with some bias then you compose that sum with some bias then you compose that sum with some other function like the sigmoid squish other function like the sigmoid squish other function like the sigmoid squish ification or aayu the way that I walked ification or aayu the way that I walked ification or aayu the way that I walked through last video in total given the through last video in total given the through last video in total given the somewhat arbitrary choice of two hidden somewhat arbitrary choice of two hidden somewhat arbitrary choice of two hidden layers here with 16 neurons each the layers here with 16 neurons each the layers here with 16 neurons each the network has about 13,000 weights and network has about 13,000 weights and network has about 13,000 weights and biases that we can adjust and it's these biases that we can adjust and it's these biases that we can adjust and it's these values that determine what exactly the values that determine what exactly the values that determine what exactly the network you know actually does then what network you know actually does then what network you know actually does then what we mean when we say that this network we mean when we say that this network we mean when we say that this network classifies a given digit is that the classifies a given digit is that the classifies a given digit is that the brightest of those 10 neurons into the brightest of those 10 neurons into the brightest of those 10 neurons into the final layer corresponds to that digit final layer corresponds to that digit final layer corresponds to that digit and remember the motivation that we had and remember the motivation that we had and remember the motivation that we had in mind here for the layered structure in mind here for the layered structure in mind here for the layered structure was that maybe the second layer could was that maybe the second layer could was that maybe the second layer could pick up on the edges and the third layer pick up on the edges and the third layer pick up on the edges and the third layer might pick up on patterns like loops and might pick up on patterns like loops and might pick up on patterns like loops and lines and the last one could just piece lines and the last one could just piece lines and the last one could just piece together those patterns to recognize together those patterns to recognize together those patterns to recognize digits so here we learn how the network digits so here we learn how the network digits so here we learn how the network learns what we want is an algorithm learns what we want is an algorithm learns what we want is an algorithm where you can show this network a whole where you can show this network a whole where you can show this network a whole bunch of training data which comes in bunch of training data which comes in bunch of training data which comes in the form of a bunch of different images the form of a bunch of different images the form of a bunch of different images of handwritten digits along with labels of handwritten digits along with labels of handwritten digits along with labels for what they're supposed to be and for what they're supposed to be and for what they're supposed to be and it'll adjust those 13,000 weights and it'll adjust those 13,000 weights and it'll adjust those 13,000 weights and biases so as to improve its performance biases so as to improve its performance biases so as to improve its performance on the training data hopefully this on the training data hopefully this on the training data hopefully this layered structure will mean that what it layered structure will mean that what it layered structure will mean that what it learns generalizes to images beyond that learns generalizes to images beyond that learns generalizes to images beyond that training data and the way we test that training data and the way we test that training data and the way we test that is that after you train the network you is that after you train the network you is that after you train the network you show it more labeled data that it's show it more labeled data that it's show it more labeled data that it's never seen before and you see how never seen before and you see how never seen before and you see how accurately it classifies those new accurately it classifies those new accurately it classifies those new images fortunately for us and what makes this fortunately for us and what makes this such a common example to start with is such a common example to start with is such a common example to start with is that the good people behind the Mist that the good people behind the Mist that the good people behind the Mist database have put together a collection database have put together a collection database have put together a collection of tens of thousands of handwritten of tens of thousands of handwritten of tens of thousands of handwritten digit images each one labeled with the digit images each one labeled with the digit images each one labeled with the numbers that they're supposed to be and numbers that they're supposed to be and numbers that they're supposed to be and as provocative as it is to describe a as provocative as it is to describe a as provocative as it is to describe a machine as learning once you actually machine as learning once you actually machine as learning once you actually see how it works it feels a lot less see how it works it feels a lot less see how it works it feels a lot less like some crazy sci-fi premise and a lot like some crazy sci-fi premise and a lot like some crazy sci-fi premise and a lot more like well a calculus exercise I more like well a calculus exercise I more like well a calculus exercise I mean basically it comes down to finding mean basically it comes down to finding mean basically it comes down to finding the minimum of a certain function the minimum of a certain function the minimum of a certain function remember conceptually we're thinking of remember conceptually we're thinking of remember conceptually we're thinking of each neuron as being connected to all of each neuron as being connected to all of each neuron as being connected to all of the neurons in the previous layer and the neurons in the previous layer and the neurons in the previous layer and the weights in the weighted sum defining the weights in the weighted sum defining the weights in the weighted sum defining its activation are kind of like the its activation are kind of like the its activation are kind of like the strengths of those connections and the strengths of those connections and the strengths of those connections and the bias is some indication of whether that bias is some indication of whether that bias is some indication of whether that neuron tends to be active or inactive neuron tends to be active or inactive neuron tends to be active or inactive and to start things off we're just going and to start things off we're just going and to start things off we're just going to initialize all of those weights and to initialize all of those weights and to initialize all of those weights and biases totally randomly needless to say biases totally randomly needless to say biases totally randomly needless to say this network is going to perform pretty this network is going to perform pretty this network is going to perform pretty horribly on a given training example horribly on a given training example horribly on a given training example since it's just doing something random since it's just doing something random since it's just doing something random for example you feed in this image of a for example you feed in this image of a for example you feed in this image of a three and the output layer it just looks three and the output layer it just looks three and the output layer it just looks like a mess so what you do is you define like a mess so what you do is you define like a mess so what you do is you define a cost function a way of telling the a cost function a way of telling the a cost function a way of telling the computer no bad computer that output computer no bad computer that output computer no bad computer that output should have activations which are zero should have activations which are zero should have activations which are zero for most neurons but one for this neuron for most neurons but one for this neuron for most neurons but one for this neuron what you gave me is utter trash to say what you gave me is utter trash to say what you gave me is utter trash to say that a little more mathematically what that a little more mathematically what that a little more mathematically what you do is add up the squares of the you do is add up the squares of the you do is add up the squares of the differences between each of those trash differences between each of those trash differences between each of those trash output activations and the value that output activations and the value that output activations and the value that you want them to have and this is what you want them to have and this is what you want them to have and this is what we'll call the cost of a single training we'll call the cost of a single training we'll call the cost of a single training example notice this sum is small when example notice this sum is small when example notice this sum is small when the network confidently classifies the the network confidently classifies the the network confidently classifies the image image image correctly but it's large when the correctly but it's large when the correctly but it's large when the network seems like it doesn't really network seems like it doesn't really network seems like it doesn't really know what it's doing so then what you do is consider doing so then what you do is consider the average cost over all of the tens of the average cost over all of the tens of the average cost over all of the tens of thousands of training examples at your thousands of training examples at your thousands of training examples at your disposal this average cost is our disposal this average cost is our disposal this average cost is our measure for how how lousy the network is measure for how how lousy the network is measure for how how lousy the network is and how bad the computer should feel and and how bad the computer should feel and and how bad the computer should feel and that's a complicated thing remember how that's a complicated thing remember how that's a complicated thing remember how the network itself was basically a the network itself was basically a the network itself was basically a function one that takes in 784 numbers function one that takes in 784 numbers function one that takes in 784 numbers as inputs the pixel values and spits out as inputs the pixel values and spits out as inputs the pixel values and spits out 10 numbers as its output and in a since 10 numbers as its output and in a since 10 numbers as its output and in a since it's parameterized by all these weights it's parameterized by all these weights it's parameterized by all these weights and biases well the cost function is a and biases well the cost function is a and biases well the cost function is a layer of complexity on top of that it layer of complexity on top of that it layer of complexity on top of that it takes as its input those 13,000 or so takes as its input those 13,000 or so takes as its input those 13,000 or so weights and biases and it spits out a weights and biases and it spits out a weights and biases and it spits out a single number describing how bad those single number describing how bad those single number describing how bad those weights and biases are and the way it's weights and biases are and the way it's weights and biases are and the way it's defined depends on the Network's defined depends on the Network's defined depends on the Network's Behavior over all the tens of thousands Behavior over all the tens of thousands Behavior over all the tens of thousands of pieces of training data that's a lot of pieces of training data that's a lot of pieces of training data that's a lot to think to think to think about but just telling the computer what about but just telling the computer what about but just telling the computer what a crappy job it's doing isn't very a crappy job it's doing isn't very a crappy job it's doing isn't very helpful you want to tell it how to helpful you want to tell it how to helpful you want to tell it how to change those weights and biases so that change those weights and biases so that change those weights and biases so that it gets better to make it easier rather it gets better to make it easier rather it gets better to make it easier rather than struggling to imagine a function than struggling to imagine a function than struggling to imagine a function with 13,000 inputs just imagine a simple with 13,000 inputs just imagine a simple with 13,000 inputs just imagine a simple function that has one number as an input function that has one number as an input function that has one number as an input and one number as an output how do you and one number as an output how do you and one number as an output how do you find an input that minimizes the value find an input that minimizes the value find an input that minimizes the value of this function calculus students will of this function calculus students will of this function calculus students will know that you can sometimes figure out know that you can sometimes figure out know that you can sometimes figure out that minimum explicitly but that's not that minimum explicitly but that's not that minimum explicitly but that's not always feasible for really complicated always feasible for really complicated always feasible for really complicated functions certainly not in the 13,000 functions certainly not in the 13,000 functions certainly not in the 13,000 input version of this situation for our input version of this situation for our input version of this situation for our crazy complicated neural network cost crazy complicated neural network cost crazy complicated neural network cost function a more flexible tactic is to function a more flexible tactic is to function a more flexible tactic is to start at any all input and figure out start at any all input and figure out start at any all input and figure out which direction you should step to make which direction you should step to make which direction you should step to make that output lower specifically if you that output lower specifically if you that output lower specifically if you can figure out the slope of the function can figure out the slope of the function can figure out the slope of the function where you are then shift to the left if where you are then shift to the left if where you are then shift to the left if that slope is positive and shift the that slope is positive and shift the that slope is positive and shift the input to the right if that slope is negative if you do this repeatedly at negative if you do this repeatedly at each point checking the new slope and each point checking the new slope and each point checking the new slope and taking the appropriate step you're going taking the appropriate step you're going taking the appropriate step you're going to approach some local minimum of the to approach some local minimum of the to approach some local minimum of the function and the image you might have in function and the image you might have in function and the image you might have in mind here is a ball rolling down a hill mind here is a ball rolling down a hill mind here is a ball rolling down a hill and notice even for this really and notice even for this really and notice even for this really simplified single input function there simplified single input function there simplified single input function there are many possible valleys that you might are many possible valleys that you might are many possible valleys that you might land in depending on which random input land in depending on which random input land in depending on which random input you start at and there's no guarantee you start at and there's no guarantee you start at and there's no guarantee that the local minimum you land in is that the local minimum you land in is that the local minimum you land in is going to be the smallest possible value going to be the smallest possible value going to be the smallest possible value of the cost function that's going to of the cost function that's going to of the cost function that's going to carry over to our neural network case as carry over to our neural network case as carry over to our neural network case as well and I also want you to notice how well and I also want you to notice how well and I also want you to notice how if you make your step sizes proportional if you make your step sizes proportional if you make your step sizes proportional to the slope then when the slope is to the slope then when the slope is to the slope then when the slope is flattening out towards the minimum your flattening out towards the minimum your flattening out towards the minimum your steps get smaller and smaller and that steps get smaller and smaller and that steps get smaller and smaller and that kind of helps you from kind of helps you from kind of helps you from overshooting bumping up the complexity a overshooting bumping up the complexity a overshooting bumping up the complexity a bit imagine instead a function with two bit imagine instead a function with two bit imagine instead a function with two inputs and one output you might think of inputs and one output you might think of inputs and one output you might think of the input space as the XY plane and the the input space as the XY plane and the the input space as the XY plane and the cost function as being graphed as a cost function as being graphed as a cost function as being graphed as a surface above it now instead of asking surface above it now instead of asking surface above it now instead of asking about the slope of the function you have about the slope of the function you have about the slope of the function you have to ask which direction should you step to ask which direction should you step to ask which direction should you step in this input space so is to decrease in this input space so is to decrease in this input space so is to decrease the output of the function most quickly the output of the function most quickly the output of the function most quickly in other words what's the downhill in other words what's the downhill in other words what's the downhill Direction and again it's helpful to Direction and again it's helpful to Direction and again it's helpful to think of a ball rolling down that Hill think of a ball rolling down that Hill think of a ball rolling down that Hill those of you familiar with multivariable those of you familiar with multivariable those of you familiar with multivariable Calculus will know know that the Calculus will know know that the Calculus will know know that the gradient of a function gives you the gradient of a function gives you the gradient of a function gives you the direction of steepest Ascent basically direction of steepest Ascent basically direction of steepest Ascent basically which direction should you step to which direction should you step to which direction should you step to increase the function most quickly increase the function most quickly increase the function most quickly naturally enough taking the negative of naturally enough taking the negative of naturally enough taking the negative of that gradient gives you the direction to that gradient gives you the direction to that gradient gives you the direction to step that decreases the function most step that decreases the function most step that decreases the function most quickly and even more than that the quickly and even more than that the quickly and even more than that the length of this gradient Vector is length of this gradient Vector is length of this gradient Vector is actually an indication for just how actually an indication for just how actually an indication for just how steep that steepest slope is now if steep that steepest slope is now if steep that steepest slope is now if you're unfamiliar with multivariable you're unfamiliar with multivariable you're unfamiliar with multivariable Calculus and you want to learn more Calculus and you want to learn more Calculus and you want to learn more check out some of the work that I did check out some of the work that I did check out some of the work that I did for k on the topic Honestly though all for k on the topic Honestly though all for k on the topic Honestly though all that matters for you and me right now is that matters for you and me right now is that matters for you and me right now is that in principle there exists a way to that in principle there exists a way to that in principle there exists a way to compute this Vector this Vector that compute this Vector this Vector that compute this Vector this Vector that tells you what the downhill direction is tells you what the downhill direction is tells you what the downhill direction is and how steep it is you'll be okay if and how steep it is you'll be okay if and how steep it is you'll be okay if that's all you know and you're not rock that's all you know and you're not rock that's all you know and you're not rock solid on the solid on the solid on the details cuz if you can get that the details cuz if you can get that the details cuz if you can get that the algorithm for minimizing the function is algorithm for minimizing the function is algorithm for minimizing the function is to compute this gradient Direction then to compute this gradient Direction then to compute this gradient Direction then take a small step downhill and just take a small step downhill and just take a small step downhill and just repeat that over and repeat that over and repeat that over and over it's the same basic idea for over it's the same basic idea for over it's the same basic idea for function that has 13,000 inputs instead function that has 13,000 inputs instead function that has 13,000 inputs instead of two inputs imagine organizing all of two inputs imagine organizing all of two inputs imagine organizing all 13,000 weights and biases of our Network 13,000 weights and biases of our Network 13,000 weights and biases of our Network into a giant column Vector the negative into a giant column Vector the negative into a giant column Vector the negative gradient of the cost function is just a gradient of the cost function is just a gradient of the cost function is just a vector it's some direction inside this vector it's some direction inside this vector it's some direction inside this insanely huge input space that tells you insanely huge input space that tells you insanely huge input space that tells you which nudges to all of those numbers is which nudges to all of those numbers is which nudges to all of those numbers is going to cause the most rapid decrease going to cause the most rapid decrease going to cause the most rapid decrease to the cost function and of course with to the cost function and of course with to the cost function and of course with our specially designed cost function our specially designed cost function our specially designed cost function changing the weights of and biases to changing the weights of and biases to changing the weights of and biases to decrease it means making the output of decrease it means making the output of decrease it means making the output of the network on each piece of training the network on each piece of training the network on each piece of training data look less like a random array of 10 data look less like a random array of 10 data look less like a random array of 10 values and more like an actual decision values and more like an actual decision values and more like an actual decision that we want it to make it's important that we want it to make it's important that we want it to make it's important to remember this cost function involves to remember this cost function involves to remember this cost function involves an average over all of the training data an average over all of the training data an average over all of the training data so if you minimize it it means it's a so if you minimize it it means it's a so if you minimize it it means it's a better performance on all of those samples the algorithm for computing this samples the algorithm for computing this gradient efficiently which is gradient efficiently which is gradient efficiently which is effectively the heart of how a neural effectively the heart of how a neural effectively the heart of how a neural network learns is called back network learns is called back network learns is called back propagation and it's what I'm going to propagation and it's what I'm going to propagation and it's what I'm going to be talking about next video there I be talking about next video there I be talking about next video there I really want to take the time to walk really want to take the time to walk really want to take the time to walk through what exactly happens to each through what exactly happens to each through what exactly happens to each weight and each bias for a given piece weight and each bias for a given piece weight and each bias for a given piece of training data trying to give an of training data trying to give an of training data trying to give an intuitive feel for what's happening intuitive feel for what's happening intuitive feel for what's happening beyond the pile of relevant calculus and beyond the pile of relevant calculus and beyond the pile of relevant calculus and formulas Right Here Right Now the main formulas Right Here Right Now the main formulas Right Here Right Now the main thing I want you to know independent of thing I want you to know independent of thing I want you to know independent of implementation details is that what we implementation details is that what we implementation details is that what we mean when we talk about a network mean when we talk about a network mean when we talk about a network learning is that it's just minimizing a learning is that it's just minimizing a learning is that it's just minimizing a cost function and notice one consequence cost function and notice one consequence cost function and notice one consequence of that is that it's important for this of that is that it's important for this of that is that it's important for this cost function to have a nice smooth cost function to have a nice smooth cost function to have a nice smooth output so that we can find a local output so that we can find a local output so that we can find a local minimum by taking little steps minimum by taking little steps minimum by taking little steps downhill this is why by the way downhill this is why by the way downhill this is why by the way artificial neurons have continuously artificial neurons have continuously artificial neurons have continuously ranging activations rather than simply ranging activations rather than simply ranging activations rather than simply being active or inactive in a binary way being active or inactive in a binary way being active or inactive in a binary way the way that biological neurons the way that biological neurons the way that biological neurons are this process of repeatedly nudging are this process of repeatedly nudging are this process of repeatedly nudging an input of a function by some multiple an input of a function by some multiple an input of a function by some multiple of the negative gradient is called of the negative gradient is called of the negative gradient is called gradient descent it's a way to converge gradient descent it's a way to converge gradient descent it's a way to converge towards some local minimum of a cost towards some local minimum of a cost towards some local minimum of a cost function basically a valley in this function basically a valley in this function basically a valley in this graph I'm still showing the picture of a graph I'm still showing the picture of a graph I'm still showing the picture of a function with two inputs of course function with two inputs of course function with two inputs of course because nudges in a 13,000 dimensional because nudges in a 13,000 dimensional because nudges in a 13,000 dimensional inut space are a little hard to wrap inut space are a little hard to wrap inut space are a little hard to wrap your mind around but there is actually a your mind around but there is actually a your mind around but there is actually a nice non-spatial way to think about this nice non-spatial way to think about this nice non-spatial way to think about this each component of the negative gradient each component of the negative gradient each component of the negative gradient tells us two things the sign of course tells us two things the sign of course tells us two things the sign of course tells us whether the corresponding tells us whether the corresponding tells us whether the corresponding component of the input Vector should be component of the input Vector should be component of the input Vector should be nudged up or down but importantly the nudged up or down but importantly the nudged up or down but importantly the relative magnitudes of all these relative magnitudes of all these relative magnitudes of all these components components components kind of tells you which changes matter more you see in our Network an more you see in our Network an adjustment to one of the weights might adjustment to one of the weights might adjustment to one of the weights might have a much greater impact on the cost have a much greater impact on the cost have a much greater impact on the cost function than the adjustment to some function than the adjustment to some function than the adjustment to some other other other weight some of these connections just weight some of these connections just weight some of these connections just matter more for our training data so a matter more for our training data so a matter more for our training data so a way that you can think about this way that you can think about this way that you can think about this gradient Vector of our mind-warping gradient Vector of our mind-warping gradient Vector of our mind-warping massive cost function is that it encodes massive cost function is that it encodes massive cost function is that it encodes the relative importance of each weight the relative importance of each weight the relative importance of each weight and bias that is which of these changes and bias that is which of these changes and bias that is which of these changes is going to carry the most bang for your is going to carry the most bang for your is going to carry the most bang for your buck this really is just another way of buck this really is just another way of buck this really is just another way of thinking about direction to take a thinking about direction to take a thinking about direction to take a simpler example if you have some simpler example if you have some simpler example if you have some function with two variables as an input function with two variables as an input function with two variables as an input and you compute that its gradient at and you compute that its gradient at and you compute that its gradient at some particular Point comes out as some particular Point comes out as some particular Point comes out as 31 then on the one hand you can 31 then on the one hand you can 31 then on the one hand you can interpret that as saying that when interpret that as saying that when interpret that as saying that when you're standing at that input moving you're standing at that input moving you're standing at that input moving along this direction increases the along this direction increases the along this direction increases the function most quickly that when you function most quickly that when you function most quickly that when you graph the function above the plane of graph the function above the plane of graph the function above the plane of input points that Vector is what's input points that Vector is what's input points that Vector is what's giving you the straight uphill Direction giving you the straight uphill Direction giving you the straight uphill Direction but another way to read that is to say but another way to read that is to say but another way to read that is to say that changes to this first variable have that changes to this first variable have that changes to this first variable have three times the importance as changes to three times the importance as changes to three times the importance as changes to the second variable that at least in the the second variable that at least in the the second variable that at least in the neighborhood of the relevant input neighborhood of the relevant input neighborhood of the relevant input nudging the x value carries a lot more nudging the x value carries a lot more nudging the x value carries a lot more bang for your buck all right let's zoom out and sum up buck all right let's zoom out and sum up where we are so far the network itself where we are so far the network itself where we are so far the network itself is this function with 784 inputs and 10 is this function with 784 inputs and 10 is this function with 784 inputs and 10 outputs defined in terms of all of these outputs defined in terms of all of these outputs defined in terms of all of these weighted sums the cost function is a weighted sums the cost function is a weighted sums the cost function is a layer of complexity on top of that it layer of complexity on top of that it layer of complexity on top of that it takes the 13,000 weights and biases as takes the 13,000 weights and biases as takes the 13,000 weights and biases as inputs and spits out a single measure of inputs and spits out a single measure of inputs and spits out a single measure of lousiness based on the training examples lousiness based on the training examples lousiness based on the training examples and the gradient of the cost function is and the gradient of the cost function is and the gradient of the cost function is one more layer of complexity still it one more layer of complexity still it one more layer of complexity still it tells us what nudges to all of these tells us what nudges to all of these tells us what nudges to all of these weights and biases cause the fastest weights and biases cause the fastest weights and biases cause the fastest change to the value of the cost function change to the value of the cost function change to the value of the cost function which you might interpret as saying which you might interpret as saying which you might interpret as saying which changes to which weights matter which changes to which weights matter which changes to which weights matter the most so when you initialize the network with so when you initialize the network with random weights and biases and adjust random weights and biases and adjust random weights and biases and adjust them many times based on this gradient them many times based on this gradient them many times based on this gradient descent process how well does it descent process how well does it descent process how well does it actually perform on images that it's actually perform on images that it's actually perform on images that it's never seen before well the one that I've never seen before well the one that I've never seen before well the one that I've described here with the two hidden described here with the two hidden described here with the two hidden layers of 16 neurons each chosen mostly layers of 16 neurons each chosen mostly layers of 16 neurons each chosen mostly for aesthetic reasons well it's not bad for aesthetic reasons well it's not bad for aesthetic reasons well it's not bad it classifies about 96% of the new it classifies about 96% of the new it classifies about 96% of the new images that it sees correctly and images that it sees correctly and images that it sees correctly and honestly if you look at some of the honestly if you look at some of the honestly if you look at some of the examples that it messes up on you kind examples that it messes up on you kind examples that it messes up on you kind of feel compelled to cut it a little slack now if you play around with the slack now if you play around with the hidden layer structure and make a couple hidden layer structure and make a couple hidden layer structure and make a couple tweaks you can get this up to 98% and tweaks you can get this up to 98% and tweaks you can get this up to 98% and that's pretty good it's not the best you that's pretty good it's not the best you that's pretty good it's not the best you can certainly get better performance by can certainly get better performance by can certainly get better performance by getting more sophisticated than this getting more sophisticated than this getting more sophisticated than this plain vanilla network but given how plain vanilla network but given how plain vanilla network but given how daunting the initial task is I just daunting the initial task is I just daunting the initial task is I just think there's something incredible about think there's something incredible about think there's something incredible about any network doing this well on images any network doing this well on images any network doing this well on images that it's never seen before given that that it's never seen before given that that it's never seen before given that we never specifically told it what we never specifically told it what we never specifically told it what patterns to look patterns to look patterns to look for originally the way that I motivated for originally the way that I motivated for originally the way that I motivated this structure was by describing a hope this structure was by describing a hope this structure was by describing a hope that we might have that the second layer that we might have that the second layer that we might have that the second layer might pick up on little edges that the might pick up on little edges that the might pick up on little edges that the third layer would piece together those third layer would piece together those third layer would piece together those edges to recognize loops and longer edges to recognize loops and longer edges to recognize loops and longer lines and that those might be pieced lines and that those might be pieced lines and that those might be pieced together to recognize digits so is this together to recognize digits so is this together to recognize digits so is this what our network is actually doing well what our network is actually doing well what our network is actually doing well for this one at least not at all for this one at least not at all for this one at least not at all remember how last video we looked at how remember how last video we looked at how remember how last video we looked at how the weights of the connections from all the weights of the connections from all the weights of the connections from all of the neurons in the first layer to a of the neurons in the first layer to a of the neurons in the first layer to a given neuron in the second layer can be given neuron in the second layer can be given neuron in the second layer can be visualized as a given pixel pattern that visualized as a given pixel pattern that visualized as a given pixel pattern that that second layer neuron is picking up that second layer neuron is picking up that second layer neuron is picking up on well when we actually do that for the on well when we actually do that for the on well when we actually do that for the weights associated with these weights associated with these weights associated with these transitions from the first layer to the transitions from the first layer to the transitions from the first layer to the next instead of picking up on isolated next instead of picking up on isolated next instead of picking up on isolated little edges here and there they look little edges here and there they look little edges here and there they look well almost random just with some very well almost random just with some very well almost random just with some very loose patterns in the middle there it loose patterns in the middle there it loose patterns in the middle there it would seem that in the unfathomably would seem that in the unfathomably would seem that in the unfathomably large 13,000 dimensional space of large 13,000 dimensional space of large 13,000 dimensional space of possible weights and and biases our possible weights and and biases our possible weights and and biases our Network found itself a happy little Network found itself a happy little Network found itself a happy little local minimum that despite successfully local minimum that despite successfully local minimum that despite successfully classifying most images doesn't exactly classifying most images doesn't exactly classifying most images doesn't exactly pick up on the patterns that we might pick up on the patterns that we might pick up on the patterns that we might have hoped for and to really drive this have hoped for and to really drive this have hoped for and to really drive this point home watch what happens when you point home watch what happens when you point home watch what happens when you input a random image if the system was input a random image if the system was input a random image if the system was smart you might expect it to either feel smart you might expect it to either feel smart you might expect it to either feel uncertain maybe not really activating uncertain maybe not really activating uncertain maybe not really activating any of those 10 output neurons or any of those 10 output neurons or any of those 10 output neurons or activating them all evenly but instead activating them all evenly but instead activating them all evenly but instead it confidently gives you some nonsense it confidently gives you some nonsense it confidently gives you some nonsense answer as if it feels as sure that this answer as if it feels as sure that this answer as if it feels as sure that this random noise as a five as it does that random noise as a five as it does that random noise as a five as it does that an actual image of a five is a five an actual image of a five is a five an actual image of a five is a five phrased differently even if this network phrased differently even if this network phrased differently even if this network can recognize digits pretty well it has can recognize digits pretty well it has can recognize digits pretty well it has no idea how to draw them a lot of this no idea how to draw them a lot of this no idea how to draw them a lot of this is because it's such a tightly is because it's such a tightly is because it's such a tightly constrained training setup I mean put constrained training setup I mean put constrained training setup I mean put yourself in the Network's shoes here yourself in the Network's shoes here yourself in the Network's shoes here from its point of view the entire from its point of view the entire from its point of view the entire universe consists of nothing but clearly universe consists of nothing but clearly universe consists of nothing but clearly defined unmoving digits centered in a defined unmoving digits centered in a defined unmoving digits centered in a tiny grid and its cost function just tiny grid and its cost function just tiny grid and its cost function just never gave it any incentive to be never gave it any incentive to be never gave it any incentive to be anything but utterly confident in its anything but utterly confident in its anything but utterly confident in its decisions so with this as the image of decisions so with this as the image of decisions so with this as the image of what those second layer neurons are what those second layer neurons are what those second layer neurons are really doing you might wonder why I really doing you might wonder why I really doing you might wonder why I would introduce this network with the would introduce this network with the would introduce this network with the motivation of picking up on edges and motivation of picking up on edges and motivation of picking up on edges and patterns I mean that's just not at all patterns I mean that's just not at all patterns I mean that's just not at all what it ends up doing well this is not what it ends up doing well this is not what it ends up doing well this is not meant to be our end goal but instead a meant to be our end goal but instead a meant to be our end goal but instead a starting point frankly this is old starting point frankly this is old starting point frankly this is old technology the kind researched in the ' technology the kind researched in the ' technology the kind researched in the ' 80s and '90s and you do need to 80s and '90s and you do need to 80s and '90s and you do need to understand it before you can understand understand it before you can understand understand it before you can understand more detailed modern variants and it more detailed modern variants and it more detailed modern variants and it clearly is capable of solving some clearly is capable of solving some clearly is capable of solving some interesting problems s but the more you interesting problems s but the more you interesting problems s but the more you dig into what those hidden layers are dig into what those hidden layers are dig into what those hidden layers are really doing the less intelligent it seems Shifting the focus for a moment seems Shifting the focus for a moment from how networks learn to how you learn from how networks learn to how you learn from how networks learn to how you learn that'll only happen if you engage that'll only happen if you engage that'll only happen if you engage actively with the material here somehow actively with the material here somehow actively with the material here somehow one pretty simple thing that I want you one pretty simple thing that I want you one pretty simple thing that I want you to do is just pause right now and think to do is just pause right now and think to do is just pause right now and think deeply for a moment about what changes deeply for a moment about what changes deeply for a moment about what changes you might make to this system and how it you might make to this system and how it you might make to this system and how it perceives images if you wanted it to perceives images if you wanted it to perceives images if you wanted it to better pick up on things like edges and better pick up on things like edges and better pick up on things like edges and patterns but better than that to patterns but better than that to patterns but better than that to actually engage with the material I actually engage with the material I actually engage with the material I highly recommend the book by Michael highly recommend the book by Michael highly recommend the book by Michael neelen on deep learning and neural neelen on deep learning and neural neelen on deep learning and neural networks in it you can find the code and networks in it you can find the code and networks in it you can find the code and the data to download and play with for the data to download and play with for the data to download and play with for this exact example and the book will this exact example and the book will this exact example and the book will walk you through step by step what that walk you through step by step what that walk you through step by step what that code is doing what's awesome is that code is doing what's awesome is that code is doing what's awesome is that this book is free and publicly available this book is free and publicly available this book is free and publicly available so if you do get something out of it so if you do get something out of it so if you do get something out of it consider joining me in making a donation consider joining me in making a donation consider joining me in making a donation towards neel's efforts I've also linked towards neel's efforts I've also linked towards neel's efforts I've also linked a couple other resources that I like a a couple other resources that I like a a couple other resources that I like a lot in the description including the lot in the description including the lot in the description including the phenomenal and beautiful blog post by phenomenal and beautiful blog post by phenomenal and beautiful blog post by Chris Ola and the articles in Chris Ola and the articles in Chris Ola and the articles in distill to close things off here for the distill to close things off here for the distill to close things off here for the last few minutes I want to jump back last few minutes I want to jump back last few minutes I want to jump back into a snippet of the interview that I into a snippet of the interview that I into a snippet of the interview that I had with Lea Lee you might remember her had with Lea Lee you might remember her had with Lea Lee you might remember her from the last video she did her PhD work from the last video she did her PhD work from the last video she did her PhD work in deep learning and in this little in deep learning and in this little in deep learning and in this little snippet she talks about two recent snippet she talks about two recent snippet she talks about two recent papers that really dig into to how some papers that really dig into to how some papers that really dig into to how some of the more modern image recognition of the more modern image recognition of the more modern image recognition networks are actually learning just to networks are actually learning just to networks are actually learning just to set up where we were in the conversation set up where we were in the conversation set up where we were in the conversation the first paper took one of these the first paper took one of these the first paper took one of these particularly deep neural networks that's particularly deep neural networks that's particularly deep neural networks that's really good at image recognition and really good at image recognition and really good at image recognition and instead of training it on a properly instead of training it on a properly instead of training it on a properly labeled data set it shuffled all of the labeled data set it shuffled all of the labeled data set it shuffled all of the labels around before training obviously labels around before training obviously labels around before training obviously the testing accuracy here was going to the testing accuracy here was going to the testing accuracy here was going to be no better than random since be no better than random since be no better than random since everything's just randomly labeled but everything's just randomly labeled but everything's just randomly labeled but it was still able to achieve the same it was still able to achieve the same it was still able to achieve the same training accuracy as you would on a training accuracy as you would on a training accuracy as you would on a properly labeled data set basically the properly labeled data set basically the properly labeled data set basically the millions of weights for this particular millions of weights for this particular millions of weights for this particular Network were enough for it to just Network were enough for it to just Network were enough for it to just memorize the random data which kind of memorize the random data which kind of memorize the random data which kind of Reon is the question for whether Reon is the question for whether Reon is the question for whether minimizing this cost function actually minimizing this cost function actually minimizing this cost function actually corresponds to any sort of structure in corresponds to any sort of structure in corresponds to any sort of structure in the image or is it just you know the image or is it just you know the image or is it just you know memorization the entire data set of what memorization the entire data set of what memorization the entire data set of what the correct classification is and so a the correct classification is and so a the correct classification is and so a couple of you know half a year later at couple of you know half a year later at couple of you know half a year later at icml this year um there was not exactly icml this year um there was not exactly icml this year um there was not exactly rebuttal paper paper that addressed some rebuttal paper paper that addressed some rebuttal paper paper that addressed some aspects of like hey actually these aspects of like hey actually these aspects of like hey actually these networks are doing something a little networks are doing something a little networks are doing something a little bit smarter than that if you look at bit smarter than that if you look at bit smarter than that if you look at that accuracy curve if you were just that accuracy curve if you were just that accuracy curve if you were just training on a random data set that curve training on a random data set that curve training on a random data set that curve sort of went down very you know very sort of went down very you know very sort of went down very you know very slowly in almost kind of a linear slowly in almost kind of a linear slowly in almost kind of a linear fashion so you're really struggling to fashion so you're really struggling to fashion so you're really struggling to find that local Minima of possible you find that local Minima of possible you find that local Minima of possible you know the right weights that would get know the right weights that would get know the right weights that would get you that accuracy whereas if you're you that accuracy whereas if you're you that accuracy whereas if you're actually training on a structured data actually training on a structured data actually training on a structured data set one that has the right labels you set one that has the right labels you set one that has the right labels you know you fiddle around a little bit in know you fiddle around a little bit in know you fiddle around a little bit in the beginning but then you kind of the beginning but then you kind of the beginning but then you kind of dropped very fast to get to that uh dropped very fast to get to that uh dropped very fast to get to that uh accuracy level and so in some sense it accuracy level and so in some sense it accuracy level and so in some sense it was easier to find that local Maxima and was easier to find that local Maxima and was easier to find that local Maxima and so so was also interesting about that is so so was also interesting about that is so so was also interesting about that is it it brings into light another paper it it brings into light another paper it it brings into light another paper from actually a couple of years ago from actually a couple of years ago from actually a couple of years ago which has a lot more uh simplifications which has a lot more uh simplifications which has a lot more uh simplifications about the network layers but one of the about the network layers but one of the about the network layers but one of the results was saying how if you look at results was saying how if you look at results was saying how if you look at the optimization landscape the local the optimization landscape the local the optimization landscape the local Minima that these networks tend to learn Minima that these networks tend to learn Minima that these networks tend to learn are actually of equal quality so in some are actually of equal quality so in some are actually of equal quality so in some sense if your data set is structured you sense if your data set is structured you sense if your data set is structured you should be able to find that much more easily my thanks as always to those of easily my thanks as always to those of you supporting on patreon I've said you supporting on patreon I've said you supporting on patreon I've said before just what a game changer patreon before just what a game changer patreon before just what a game changer patreon is but these videos really would not be is but these videos really would not be is but these videos really would not be possible without you I also want to give possible without you I also want to give possible without you I also want to give a special thanks to the VC firm amplify a special thanks to the VC firm amplify a special thanks to the VC firm amplify Partners in their support of these Partners in their support of these Partners in their support of these initial videos in the series
here we tackle back propagation the core here we tackle back propagation the core algorithm behind how nural networks algorithm behind how nural networks algorithm behind how nural networks learn after a quick recap for where we learn after a quick recap for where we learn after a quick recap for where we are the first thing I'll do is an are the first thing I'll do is an are the first thing I'll do is an intuitive walkthrough for what the intuitive walkthrough for what the intuitive walkthrough for what the algorithm is actually doing without any algorithm is actually doing without any algorithm is actually doing without any reference to the formulas then for those reference to the formulas then for those reference to the formulas then for those of you who do want to dive into the math of you who do want to dive into the math of you who do want to dive into the math the next video goes into the calculus the next video goes into the calculus the next video goes into the calculus underlying all this if you watch the underlying all this if you watch the underlying all this if you watch the last two videos or if you're just last two videos or if you're just last two videos or if you're just jumping in with the appropriate jumping in with the appropriate jumping in with the appropriate background you know what a neural background you know what a neural background you know what a neural network is and how it feeds forward network is and how it feeds forward network is and how it feeds forward information here we're doing the classic information here we're doing the classic information here we're doing the classic example of recognizing handwritten example of recognizing handwritten example of recognizing handwritten digits whose pixel values get fed into digits whose pixel values get fed into digits whose pixel values get fed into the first layer of the network with 784 the first layer of the network with 784 the first layer of the network with 784 neurons and I've been showing a network neurons and I've been showing a network neurons and I've been showing a network with two hidden layers having just 16 with two hidden layers having just 16 with two hidden layers having just 16 neurons each and an output layer of 10 neurons each and an output layer of 10 neurons each and an output layer of 10 neurons indicating which digit the neurons indicating which digit the neurons indicating which digit the network is choosing as its answer I'm network is choosing as its answer I'm network is choosing as its answer I'm also expecting you to understand also expecting you to understand also expecting you to understand gradient descent as described in the gradient descent as described in the gradient descent as described in the last video and how what we mean by last video and how what we mean by last video and how what we mean by learning is that we want to find which learning is that we want to find which learning is that we want to find which weights and biases minimize a certain weights and biases minimize a certain weights and biases minimize a certain cost function as a quick reminder for cost function as a quick reminder for cost function as a quick reminder for the cost of a single training example the cost of a single training example the cost of a single training example what you do is take the output that the what you do is take the output that the what you do is take the output that the network gives along with the output that network gives along with the output that network gives along with the output that you wanted it to give and you just add you wanted it to give and you just add you wanted it to give and you just add up the squares of the differences up the squares of the differences up the squares of the differences between each component doing this for between each component doing this for between each component doing this for all of your tens of thousands of all of your tens of thousands of all of your tens of thousands of training examples and averaging the training examples and averaging the training examples and averaging the results this gives you the total cost of results this gives you the total cost of results this gives you the total cost of the network and as if that's not enough the network and as if that's not enough the network and as if that's not enough to think about as described in the last to think about as described in the last to think about as described in the last video the thing that we're looking for video the thing that we're looking for video the thing that we're looking for is the negative gradient of this cost is the negative gradient of this cost is the negative gradient of this cost function which tells you how you need to function which tells you how you need to function which tells you how you need to change all of the weights and biases all change all of the weights and biases all change all of the weights and biases all of these connections so as to most of these connections so as to most of these connections so as to most efficiently decrease the cost back propagation the topic of this cost back propagation the topic of this video is an algorithm for computing that video is an algorithm for computing that video is an algorithm for computing that crazy complicated gradient and the one crazy complicated gradient and the one crazy complicated gradient and the one idea from the last video that I really idea from the last video that I really idea from the last video that I really want you to hold firmly in your mind want you to hold firmly in your mind want you to hold firmly in your mind right now is that because thinking of right now is that because thinking of right now is that because thinking of the gradient Vector as a direction in the gradient Vector as a direction in the gradient Vector as a direction in 13,000 Dimensions is to put it lightly 13,000 Dimensions is to put it lightly 13,000 Dimensions is to put it lightly beyond the scope of our imaginations beyond the scope of our imaginations beyond the scope of our imaginations there's another way you can think about there's another way you can think about there's another way you can think about it the magnitude of each component here it the magnitude of each component here it the magnitude of each component here is telling you how sensitive the cost is telling you how sensitive the cost is telling you how sensitive the cost function is to each weight and bias for function is to each weight and bias for function is to each weight and bias for example let's say you go through the example let's say you go through the example let's say you go through the process I'm about to describe and you process I'm about to describe and you process I'm about to describe and you compute the negative gradient and the compute the negative gradient and the compute the negative gradient and the component associated with the weight on component associated with the weight on component associated with the weight on this edge here comes out to be 3.2 while this edge here comes out to be 3.2 while this edge here comes out to be 3.2 while the component associated with this edge the component associated with this edge the component associated with this edge here comes out as here comes out as here comes out as 0.1 the way you would interpret that is 0.1 the way you would interpret that is 0.1 the way you would interpret that is that the cost of the function is 32 that the cost of the function is 32 that the cost of the function is 32 times more sensitive to changes in that times more sensitive to changes in that times more sensitive to changes in that first weight so if you were to wiggle first weight so if you were to wiggle first weight so if you were to wiggle that value just a little bit it's going that value just a little bit it's going that value just a little bit it's going to cause some change to the cost and to cause some change to the cost and to cause some change to the cost and that change is 32 times greater than that change is 32 times greater than that change is 32 times greater than what the same wiggle to that second what the same wiggle to that second what the same wiggle to that second weight would give personally when I was first give personally when I was first learning about back propagation I think learning about back propagation I think learning about back propagation I think the most confusing aspect was just the the most confusing aspect was just the the most confusing aspect was just the notation and the index chasing of it all notation and the index chasing of it all notation and the index chasing of it all but once you unwrap what each part of but once you unwrap what each part of but once you unwrap what each part of this algorithm is really doing each this algorithm is really doing each this algorithm is really doing each individual effect that it's having is individual effect that it's having is individual effect that it's having is actually pretty intuitive it's just that actually pretty intuitive it's just that actually pretty intuitive it's just that there's a lot of little adjustments there's a lot of little adjustments there's a lot of little adjustments getting layered on top of each other so getting layered on top of each other so getting layered on top of each other so I'm going to start things off here with I'm going to start things off here with I'm going to start things off here with a complete disregard for the notation a complete disregard for the notation a complete disregard for the notation and just step through those effects that and just step through those effects that and just step through those effects that each training example is having on the each training example is having on the each training example is having on the weights and weights and weights and biases because the cost function biases because the cost function biases because the cost function involves averaging a certain cost per involves averaging a certain cost per involves averaging a certain cost per example over all the tens of thousands example over all the tens of thousands example over all the tens of thousands of training examples the way that we of training examples the way that we of training examples the way that we adjust the weights and biases for a adjust the weights and biases for a adjust the weights and biases for a single gradient descent step also single gradient descent step also single gradient descent step also depends on every single example or depends on every single example or depends on every single example or rather in principle it should but for rather in principle it should but for rather in principle it should but for computational efficiency we're going to computational efficiency we're going to computational efficiency we're going to do a little trick later to keep you from do a little trick later to keep you from do a little trick later to keep you from needing to hit every single example for needing to hit every single example for needing to hit every single example for every single step in either case right every single step in either case right every single step in either case right now all we're going to do is focus our now all we're going to do is focus our now all we're going to do is focus our attention on one single example this attention on one single example this attention on one single example this image of a two what effect should this image of a two what effect should this image of a two what effect should this one training example have on how the one training example have on how the one training example have on how the weights and biases get weights and biases get weights and biases get adjusted let's say we're at a point adjusted let's say we're at a point adjusted let's say we're at a point where the network is not well trained where the network is not well trained where the network is not well trained yet so the activations in the output are yet so the activations in the output are yet so the activations in the output are going to look pretty random maybe going to look pretty random maybe going to look pretty random maybe something like 0.5 0 .8 0.2 on and on something like 0.5 0 .8 0.2 on and on something like 0.5 0 .8 0.2 on and on now we can't directly change those now we can't directly change those now we can't directly change those activations we only have influence on activations we only have influence on activations we only have influence on the weights and biases but it is helpful the weights and biases but it is helpful the weights and biases but it is helpful to keep track of which adjustments we to keep track of which adjustments we to keep track of which adjustments we wish should take place to that output wish should take place to that output wish should take place to that output layer and since we want it to classify layer and since we want it to classify layer and since we want it to classify the image as a two we want that third the image as a two we want that third the image as a two we want that third value to get nudged up while all of the value to get nudged up while all of the value to get nudged up while all of the others get nudged down moreover the others get nudged down moreover the others get nudged down moreover the sizes of these nudges should be sizes of these nudges should be sizes of these nudges should be proportional to how far away each proportional to how far away each proportional to how far away each current value is from its Target value current value is from its Target value current value is from its Target value for example the increase to that number for example the increase to that number for example the increase to that number two neuron's activation is in a sense two neuron's activation is in a sense two neuron's activation is in a sense more important than the decrease to the more important than the decrease to the more important than the decrease to the number eight neuron which is already number eight neuron which is already number eight neuron which is already pretty close to where it should pretty close to where it should pretty close to where it should be so zooming in further let's focus be so zooming in further let's focus be so zooming in further let's focus just on this one neuron the one whose just on this one neuron the one whose just on this one neuron the one whose activation we wish to increase remember activation we wish to increase remember activation we wish to increase remember that activation is defined as a certain that activation is defined as a certain that activation is defined as a certain weighted sum of all of the activations weighted sum of all of the activations weighted sum of all of the activations in the previous layer plus a bias which in the previous layer plus a bias which in the previous layer plus a bias which is all then plugged into something like is all then plugged into something like is all then plugged into something like the sigmoid squish function or a railu the sigmoid squish function or a railu the sigmoid squish function or a railu so there are three different avenues so there are three different avenues so there are three different avenues that can team up together to help that can team up together to help that can team up together to help increase that activation you can increase that activation you can increase that activation you can increase the bias you can increase the increase the bias you can increase the increase the bias you can increase the weights and you can change the weights and you can change the weights and you can change the activations from the previous layer activations from the previous layer activations from the previous layer focusing just on how the weights should focusing just on how the weights should focusing just on how the weights should be adjusted notice how the weights be adjusted notice how the weights be adjusted notice how the weights actually have differing levels of actually have differing levels of actually have differing levels of influence the connections with the influence the connections with the influence the connections with the brightest neurons from the preceding brightest neurons from the preceding brightest neurons from the preceding layer have the biggest effect since layer have the biggest effect since layer have the biggest effect since those weights are multiplied by larger those weights are multiplied by larger those weights are multiplied by larger activation values activation values activation values so if you were to increase one of those so if you were to increase one of those so if you were to increase one of those weights it actually has a stronger weights it actually has a stronger weights it actually has a stronger influence on the ultimate cost function influence on the ultimate cost function influence on the ultimate cost function than increasing the weights of than increasing the weights of than increasing the weights of connections with dimmer neurons at least connections with dimmer neurons at least connections with dimmer neurons at least as far as this one training example is as far as this one training example is as far as this one training example is concerned remember when we talk about concerned remember when we talk about concerned remember when we talk about gradient descent we don't just care gradient descent we don't just care gradient descent we don't just care about whether each component should get about whether each component should get about whether each component should get nudged up or down we care about which nudged up or down we care about which nudged up or down we care about which ones give you the most bang for your ones give you the most bang for your ones give you the most bang for your butt this by the way is at least butt this by the way is at least butt this by the way is at least somewhat reminiscent of a theory in somewhat reminiscent of a theory in somewhat reminiscent of a theory in Neuroscience for how biological networks Neuroscience for how biological networks Neuroscience for how biological networks of neurons learn heian theory often of neurons learn heian theory often of neurons learn heian theory often summed up in the phrase neurons that summed up in the phrase neurons that summed up in the phrase neurons that fire together wire together here the fire together wire together here the fire together wire together here the biggest increases to weights the biggest biggest increases to weights the biggest biggest increases to weights the biggest strengthening of connections happens strengthening of connections happens strengthening of connections happens between neurons which are the most between neurons which are the most between neurons which are the most active and the ones which we wish to active and the ones which we wish to active and the ones which we wish to become more active in a sense the become more active in a sense the become more active in a sense the neurons that are firing while seeing a neurons that are firing while seeing a neurons that are firing while seeing a two get more strongly linked to those two get more strongly linked to those two get more strongly linked to those firing when thinking about a to to be firing when thinking about a to to be firing when thinking about a to to be clear I really am not in a position to clear I really am not in a position to clear I really am not in a position to make statements one way or another about make statements one way or another about make statements one way or another about whether artif IAL networks of neurons whether artif IAL networks of neurons whether artif IAL networks of neurons behave anything like biological brains behave anything like biological brains behave anything like biological brains and this fires together wire together and this fires together wire together and this fires together wire together idea comes with a couple meaningful idea comes with a couple meaningful idea comes with a couple meaningful asterisks but taken as a very loose asterisks but taken as a very loose asterisks but taken as a very loose analogy I do find it interesting to note analogy I do find it interesting to note analogy I do find it interesting to note anyway the third way that we can help anyway the third way that we can help anyway the third way that we can help increase this neuron's activation is by increase this neuron's activation is by increase this neuron's activation is by changing all the activations in the changing all the activations in the changing all the activations in the previous layer namely if everything previous layer namely if everything previous layer namely if everything connected to that digit 2 neuron with a connected to that digit 2 neuron with a connected to that digit 2 neuron with a positive weight got brighter and if positive weight got brighter and if positive weight got brighter and if everything connected with a negative everything connected with a negative everything connected with a negative weight got dimmer then that digit 2 weight got dimmer then that digit 2 weight got dimmer then that digit 2 neuron would become more neuron would become more neuron would become more active and similar to the weight changes active and similar to the weight changes active and similar to the weight changes you're going to get the most bang for you're going to get the most bang for you're going to get the most bang for your buck by seeking changes that are your buck by seeking changes that are your buck by seeking changes that are proportional to the size of the proportional to the size of the proportional to the size of the corresponding corresponding corresponding weights now of course we cannot directly weights now of course we cannot directly weights now of course we cannot directly influence those activations we only have influence those activations we only have influence those activations we only have control over the weights and biases but control over the weights and biases but control over the weights and biases but just as with the last layer it's helpful just as with the last layer it's helpful just as with the last layer it's helpful to just keep a note of what those desire to just keep a note of what those desire to just keep a note of what those desire changes are but keep in mind zooming out changes are but keep in mind zooming out changes are but keep in mind zooming out one step here this is only what that one step here this is only what that one step here this is only what that digit 2 output neuron wants remember we digit 2 output neuron wants remember we digit 2 output neuron wants remember we also want all of the other neurons in also want all of the other neurons in also want all of the other neurons in the last layer to become less active and the last layer to become less active and the last layer to become less active and each of those other output neurons has each of those other output neurons has each of those other output neurons has its own thoughts about what should its own thoughts about what should its own thoughts about what should happen to that second to last layer so the desire of this digit 2 layer so the desire of this digit 2 neuron is added together with the neuron is added together with the neuron is added together with the desires of all the other output neurons desires of all the other output neurons desires of all the other output neurons for what should happen to this second to for what should happen to this second to for what should happen to this second to last layer again in proportion to the last layer again in proportion to the last layer again in proportion to the corresponding weights and in proportion corresponding weights and in proportion corresponding weights and in proportion to how much each of those neur needs to to how much each of those neur needs to to how much each of those neur needs to change this right here is where the idea change this right here is where the idea change this right here is where the idea of propagating backwards comes in by of propagating backwards comes in by of propagating backwards comes in by adding together all these desired adding together all these desired adding together all these desired effects you basically get a list of effects you basically get a list of effects you basically get a list of nudges that you want to happen to the nudges that you want to happen to the nudges that you want to happen to the second to last layer and once you have second to last layer and once you have second to last layer and once you have those you can recursively apply the same those you can recursively apply the same those you can recursively apply the same process to the relevant weights and process to the relevant weights and process to the relevant weights and biases that determine those values biases that determine those values biases that determine those values repeating the same process I just walked repeating the same process I just walked repeating the same process I just walked through and moving backwards through the network and zooming out a bit further network and zooming out a bit further remember that this is all just how a remember that this is all just how a remember that this is all just how a single training example wishes to nudge single training example wishes to nudge single training example wishes to nudge each one of those weights and biases if each one of those weights and biases if each one of those weights and biases if we only listen to what that two wanted we only listen to what that two wanted we only listen to what that two wanted the network would ultimately be the network would ultimately be the network would ultimately be incentivized just to classify all images incentivized just to classify all images incentivized just to classify all images as a two so what you do is you go as a two so what you do is you go as a two so what you do is you go through this same back propop routine through this same back propop routine through this same back propop routine for every other training example for every other training example for every other training example recording how each of them would like to recording how each of them would like to recording how each of them would like to change the weights and the biases and change the weights and the biases and change the weights and the biases and you average together those desired you average together those desired you average together those desired changes changes this collection here of the averaged this collection here of the averaged nudges to each weight and bias is nudges to each weight and bias is nudges to each weight and bias is Loosely speaking the negative gradient Loosely speaking the negative gradient Loosely speaking the negative gradient of the cost function referenced in the of the cost function referenced in the of the cost function referenced in the last video or at least something last video or at least something last video or at least something proportional to it I say Loosely proportional to it I say Loosely proportional to it I say Loosely speaking only because I have yet to get speaking only because I have yet to get speaking only because I have yet to get quantitatively precise about those quantitatively precise about those quantitatively precise about those nudges but if you understood every nudges but if you understood every nudges but if you understood every change that I just referenced why some change that I just referenced why some change that I just referenced why some are proportionally bigger than others are proportionally bigger than others are proportionally bigger than others and how they all need to be added and how they all need to be added and how they all need to be added together you understand the Mechanics together you understand the Mechanics together you understand the Mechanics for what back propagation is actually doing by the way in practice it takes doing by the way in practice it takes computers an extremely long time to add computers an extremely long time to add computers an extremely long time to add up the influence of every single up the influence of every single up the influence of every single training example every single gradient training example every single gradient training example every single gradient descent step so here's what's commonly descent step so here's what's commonly descent step so here's what's commonly done instead you randomly shuffle your done instead you randomly shuffle your done instead you randomly shuffle your training data and then divide it into a training data and then divide it into a training data and then divide it into a whole bunch of mini batches let's say whole bunch of mini batches let's say whole bunch of mini batches let's say each one having 100 training examples each one having 100 training examples each one having 100 training examples then you compute a step according to the then you compute a step according to the then you compute a step according to the mini batch it's not going to be the mini batch it's not going to be the mini batch it's not going to be the actual gradient of the cost function actual gradient of the cost function actual gradient of the cost function which depends on all of the training which depends on all of the training which depends on all of the training data not this tiny subset so it's not data not this tiny subset so it's not data not this tiny subset so it's not the most efficient step downhill but the most efficient step downhill but the most efficient step downhill but each mini batch does give you a pretty each mini batch does give you a pretty each mini batch does give you a pretty good approximation and more importantly good approximation and more importantly good approximation and more importantly it gives you a significant computational it gives you a significant computational it gives you a significant computational speed up if you were to plot the speed up if you were to plot the speed up if you were to plot the trajectory of your network under the trajectory of your network under the trajectory of your network under the relevant cost surface it would be a relevant cost surface it would be a relevant cost surface it would be a little more like a drunk man stumbling little more like a drunk man stumbling little more like a drunk man stumbling aimlessly down a hill but taking quick aimlessly down a hill but taking quick aimlessly down a hill but taking quick steps rather than a carefully steps rather than a carefully steps rather than a carefully calculating man determining the exact calculating man determining the exact calculating man determining the exact downhill direction of each step before downhill direction of each step before downhill direction of each step before taking a very slow and careful step in taking a very slow and careful step in taking a very slow and careful step in that that that direction this technique is referred to direction this technique is referred to direction this technique is referred to as stochastic gradient as stochastic gradient as stochastic gradient descent there's kind of a lot going on descent there's kind of a lot going on descent there's kind of a lot going on here so let's just sum it up for here so let's just sum it up for here so let's just sum it up for ourselves shall we back propagation is ourselves shall we back propagation is ourselves shall we back propagation is the algorithm for determining how a the algorithm for determining how a the algorithm for determining how a single training example would like to single training example would like to single training example would like to nudge the weights and biases not just in nudge the weights and biases not just in nudge the weights and biases not just in terms of whether they should go up or terms of whether they should go up or terms of whether they should go up or down but in terms of what relative down but in terms of what relative down but in terms of what relative proportions to those changes caus the proportions to those changes caus the proportions to those changes caus the most rapid decrease to the cost a true most rapid decrease to the cost a true most rapid decrease to the cost a true gradient descent step would involve gradient descent step would involve gradient descent step would involve doing this for all your tens and doing this for all your tens and doing this for all your tens and thousands of training examples and thousands of training examples and thousands of training examples and averaging the desired changes that you averaging the desired changes that you averaging the desired changes that you get but that's computationally slow so get but that's computationally slow so get but that's computationally slow so instead you randomly subdivide the data instead you randomly subdivide the data instead you randomly subdivide the data into these mini batches and compute each into these mini batches and compute each into these mini batches and compute each step with respect to a mini batch step with respect to a mini batch step with respect to a mini batch repeatedly going through all of the mini repeatedly going through all of the mini repeatedly going through all of the mini batches and making these adjustments you batches and making these adjustments you batches and making these adjustments you will converge towards a local minimum of will converge towards a local minimum of will converge towards a local minimum of the cost function which is to say your the cost function which is to say your the cost function which is to say your network is going to end up doing a network is going to end up doing a network is going to end up doing a really good job on the training really good job on the training really good job on the training examples so with all of that said every examples so with all of that said every examples so with all of that said every line of code that would go into line of code that would go into line of code that would go into implementing backprop actually implementing backprop actually implementing backprop actually corresponds with something that you have corresponds with something that you have corresponds with something that you have now seen at least in informal terms but now seen at least in informal terms but now seen at least in informal terms but sometimes knowing what the math does is sometimes knowing what the math does is sometimes knowing what the math does is only half the battle and just only half the battle and just only half the battle and just representing the damn thing is where it representing the damn thing is where it representing the damn thing is where it gets all muddled and confusing so for gets all muddled and confusing so for gets all muddled and confusing so for those of you who do want to go deeper those of you who do want to go deeper those of you who do want to go deeper the next video goes through the same the next video goes through the same the next video goes through the same ideas that were just presented here but ideas that were just presented here but ideas that were just presented here but in terms of the underlying calculus in terms of the underlying calculus in terms of the underlying calculus which should hopefully make it a little which should hopefully make it a little which should hopefully make it a little more familiar as you see the topic in more familiar as you see the topic in more familiar as you see the topic in other resources before that one thing other resources before that one thing other resources before that one thing worth emphasizing is is that for this worth emphasizing is is that for this worth emphasizing is is that for this algorithm to work and this goes for all algorithm to work and this goes for all algorithm to work and this goes for all sorts of machine learning Beyond just sorts of machine learning Beyond just sorts of machine learning Beyond just neural networks you need a lot of neural networks you need a lot of neural networks you need a lot of training data in our case one thing that training data in our case one thing that training data in our case one thing that makes handwritten digits such a nice makes handwritten digits such a nice makes handwritten digits such a nice example is that there exists the mnist example is that there exists the mnist example is that there exists the mnist database with so many examples that have database with so many examples that have database with so many examples that have been labeled by humans so a common been labeled by humans so a common been labeled by humans so a common challenge that those of you working in challenge that those of you working in challenge that those of you working in machine learning will be familiar with machine learning will be familiar with machine learning will be familiar with is just getting the labeled training is just getting the labeled training is just getting the labeled training data that you actually need whether data that you actually need whether data that you actually need whether that's having people label tens of that's having people label tens of that's having people label tens of thousands of images or whatever other thousands of images or whatever other thousands of images or whatever other data type you might be dealing with data type you might be dealing with
here we tackle back propagation the core here we tackle back propagation the core algorithm behind how nural networks algorithm behind how nural networks algorithm behind how nural networks learn after a quick recap for where we learn after a quick recap for where we learn after a quick recap for where we are the first thing I'll do is an are the first thing I'll do is an are the first thing I'll do is an intuitive walkthrough for what the intuitive walkthrough for what the intuitive walkthrough for what the algorithm is actually doing without any algorithm is actually doing without any algorithm is actually doing without any reference to the formulas then for those reference to the formulas then for those reference to the formulas then for those of you who do want to dive into the math of you who do want to dive into the math of you who do want to dive into the math the next video goes into the calculus the next video goes into the calculus the next video goes into the calculus underlying all this if you watch the underlying all this if you watch the underlying all this if you watch the last two videos or if you're just last two videos or if you're just last two videos or if you're just jumping in with the appropriate jumping in with the appropriate jumping in with the appropriate background you know what a neural background you know what a neural background you know what a neural network is and how it feeds forward network is and how it feeds forward network is and how it feeds forward information here we're doing the classic information here we're doing the classic information here we're doing the classic example of recognizing handwritten example of recognizing handwritten example of recognizing handwritten digits whose pixel values get fed into digits whose pixel values get fed into digits whose pixel values get fed into the first layer of the network with 784 the first layer of the network with 784 the first layer of the network with 784 neurons and I've been showing a network neurons and I've been showing a network neurons and I've been showing a network with two hidden layers having just 16 with two hidden layers having just 16 with two hidden layers having just 16 neurons each and an output layer of 10 neurons each and an output layer of 10 neurons each and an output layer of 10 neurons indicating which digit the neurons indicating which digit the neurons indicating which digit the network is choosing as its answer I'm network is choosing as its answer I'm network is choosing as its answer I'm also expecting you to understand also expecting you to understand also expecting you to understand gradient descent as described in the gradient descent as described in the gradient descent as described in the last video and how what we mean by last video and how what we mean by last video and how what we mean by learning is that we want to find which learning is that we want to find which learning is that we want to find which weights and biases minimize a certain weights and biases minimize a certain weights and biases minimize a certain cost function as a quick reminder for cost function as a quick reminder for cost function as a quick reminder for the cost of a single training example the cost of a single training example the cost of a single training example what you do is take the output that the what you do is take the output that the what you do is take the output that the network gives along with the output that network gives along with the output that network gives along with the output that you wanted it to give and you just add you wanted it to give and you just add you wanted it to give and you just add up the squares of the differences up the squares of the differences up the squares of the differences between each component doing this for between each component doing this for between each component doing this for all of your tens of thousands of all of your tens of thousands of all of your tens of thousands of training examples and averaging the training examples and averaging the training examples and averaging the results this gives you the total cost of results this gives you the total cost of results this gives you the total cost of the network and as if that's not enough the network and as if that's not enough the network and as if that's not enough to think about as described in the last to think about as described in the last to think about as described in the last video the thing that we're looking for video the thing that we're looking for video the thing that we're looking for is the negative gradient of this cost is the negative gradient of this cost is the negative gradient of this cost function which tells you how you need to function which tells you how you need to function which tells you how you need to change all of the weights and biases all change all of the weights and biases all change all of the weights and biases all of these connections so as to most of these connections so as to most of these connections so as to most efficiently decrease the cost back propagation the topic of this cost back propagation the topic of this video is an algorithm for computing that video is an algorithm for computing that video is an algorithm for computing that crazy complicated gradient and the one crazy complicated gradient and the one crazy complicated gradient and the one idea from the last video that I really idea from the last video that I really idea from the last video that I really want you to hold firmly in your mind want you to hold firmly in your mind want you to hold firmly in your mind right now is that because thinking of right now is that because thinking of right now is that because thinking of the gradient Vector as a direction in the gradient Vector as a direction in the gradient Vector as a direction in 13,000 Dimensions is to put it lightly 13,000 Dimensions is to put it lightly 13,000 Dimensions is to put it lightly beyond the scope of our imaginations beyond the scope of our imaginations beyond the scope of our imaginations there's another way you can think about there's another way you can think about there's another way you can think about it the magnitude of each component here it the magnitude of each component here it the magnitude of each component here is telling you how sensitive the cost is telling you how sensitive the cost is telling you how sensitive the cost function is to each weight and bias for function is to each weight and bias for function is to each weight and bias for example let's say you go through the example let's say you go through the example let's say you go through the process I'm about to describe and you process I'm about to describe and you process I'm about to describe and you compute the negative gradient and the compute the negative gradient and the compute the negative gradient and the component associated with the weight on component associated with the weight on component associated with the weight on this edge here comes out to be 3.2 while this edge here comes out to be 3.2 while this edge here comes out to be 3.2 while the component associated with this edge the component associated with this edge the component associated with this edge here comes out as here comes out as here comes out as 0.1 the way you would interpret that is 0.1 the way you would interpret that is 0.1 the way you would interpret that is that the cost of the function is 32 that the cost of the function is 32 that the cost of the function is 32 times more sensitive to changes in that times more sensitive to changes in that times more sensitive to changes in that first weight so if you were to wiggle first weight so if you were to wiggle first weight so if you were to wiggle that value just a little bit it's going that value just a little bit it's going that value just a little bit it's going to cause some change to the cost and to cause some change to the cost and to cause some change to the cost and that change is 32 times greater than that change is 32 times greater than that change is 32 times greater than what the same wiggle to that second what the same wiggle to that second what the same wiggle to that second weight would give personally when I was first give personally when I was first learning about back propagation I think learning about back propagation I think learning about back propagation I think the most confusing aspect was just the the most confusing aspect was just the the most confusing aspect was just the notation and the index chasing of it all notation and the index chasing of it all notation and the index chasing of it all but once you unwrap what each part of but once you unwrap what each part of but once you unwrap what each part of this algorithm is really doing each this algorithm is really doing each this algorithm is really doing each individual effect that it's having is individual effect that it's having is individual effect that it's having is actually pretty intuitive it's just that actually pretty intuitive it's just that actually pretty intuitive it's just that there's a lot of little adjustments there's a lot of little adjustments there's a lot of little adjustments getting layered on top of each other so getting layered on top of each other so getting layered on top of each other so I'm going to start things off here with I'm going to start things off here with I'm going to start things off here with a complete disregard for the notation a complete disregard for the notation a complete disregard for the notation and just step through those effects that and just step through those effects that and just step through those effects that each training example is having on the each training example is having on the each training example is having on the weights and weights and weights and biases because the cost function biases because the cost function biases because the cost function involves averaging a certain cost per involves averaging a certain cost per involves averaging a certain cost per example over all the tens of thousands example over all the tens of thousands example over all the tens of thousands of training examples the way that we of training examples the way that we of training examples the way that we adjust the weights and biases for a adjust the weights and biases for a adjust the weights and biases for a single gradient descent step also single gradient descent step also single gradient descent step also depends on every single example or depends on every single example or depends on every single example or rather in principle it should but for rather in principle it should but for rather in principle it should but for computational efficiency we're going to computational efficiency we're going to computational efficiency we're going to do a little trick later to keep you from do a little trick later to keep you from do a little trick later to keep you from needing to hit every single example for needing to hit every single example for needing to hit every single example for every single step in either case right every single step in either case right every single step in either case right now all we're going to do is focus our now all we're going to do is focus our now all we're going to do is focus our attention on one single example this attention on one single example this attention on one single example this image of a two what effect should this image of a two what effect should this image of a two what effect should this one training example have on how the one training example have on how the one training example have on how the weights and biases get weights and biases get weights and biases get adjusted let's say we're at a point adjusted let's say we're at a point adjusted let's say we're at a point where the network is not well trained where the network is not well trained where the network is not well trained yet so the activations in the output are yet so the activations in the output are yet so the activations in the output are going to look pretty random maybe going to look pretty random maybe going to look pretty random maybe something like 0.5 0 .8 0.2 on and on something like 0.5 0 .8 0.2 on and on something like 0.5 0 .8 0.2 on and on now we can't directly change those now we can't directly change those now we can't directly change those activations we only have influence on activations we only have influence on activations we only have influence on the weights and biases but it is helpful the weights and biases but it is helpful the weights and biases but it is helpful to keep track of which adjustments we to keep track of which adjustments we to keep track of which adjustments we wish should take place to that output wish should take place to that output wish should take place to that output layer and since we want it to classify layer and since we want it to classify layer and since we want it to classify the image as a two we want that third the image as a two we want that third the image as a two we want that third value to get nudged up while all of the value to get nudged up while all of the value to get nudged up while all of the others get nudged down moreover the others get nudged down moreover the others get nudged down moreover the sizes of these nudges should be sizes of these nudges should be sizes of these nudges should be proportional to how far away each proportional to how far away each proportional to how far away each current value is from its Target value current value is from its Target value current value is from its Target value for example the increase to that number for example the increase to that number for example the increase to that number two neuron's activation is in a sense two neuron's activation is in a sense two neuron's activation is in a sense more important than the decrease to the more important than the decrease to the more important than the decrease to the number eight neuron which is already number eight neuron which is already number eight neuron which is already pretty close to where it should pretty close to where it should pretty close to where it should be so zooming in further let's focus be so zooming in further let's focus be so zooming in further let's focus just on this one neuron the one whose just on this one neuron the one whose just on this one neuron the one whose activation we wish to increase remember activation we wish to increase remember activation we wish to increase remember that activation is defined as a certain that activation is defined as a certain that activation is defined as a certain weighted sum of all of the activations weighted sum of all of the activations weighted sum of all of the activations in the previous layer plus a bias which in the previous layer plus a bias which in the previous layer plus a bias which is all then plugged into something like is all then plugged into something like is all then plugged into something like the sigmoid squish function or a railu the sigmoid squish function or a railu the sigmoid squish function or a railu so there are three different avenues so there are three different avenues so there are three different avenues that can team up together to help that can team up together to help that can team up together to help increase that activation you can increase that activation you can increase that activation you can increase the bias you can increase the increase the bias you can increase the increase the bias you can increase the weights and you can change the weights and you can change the weights and you can change the activations from the previous layer activations from the previous layer activations from the previous layer focusing just on how the weights should focusing just on how the weights should focusing just on how the weights should be adjusted notice how the weights be adjusted notice how the weights be adjusted notice how the weights actually have differing levels of actually have differing levels of actually have differing levels of influence the connections with the influence the connections with the influence the connections with the brightest neurons from the preceding brightest neurons from the preceding brightest neurons from the preceding layer have the biggest effect since layer have the biggest effect since layer have the biggest effect since those weights are multiplied by larger those weights are multiplied by larger those weights are multiplied by larger activation values activation values activation values so if you were to increase one of those so if you were to increase one of those so if you were to increase one of those weights it actually has a stronger weights it actually has a stronger weights it actually has a stronger influence on the ultimate cost function influence on the ultimate cost function influence on the ultimate cost function than increasing the weights of than increasing the weights of than increasing the weights of connections with dimmer neurons at least connections with dimmer neurons at least connections with dimmer neurons at least as far as this one training example is as far as this one training example is as far as this one training example is concerned remember when we talk about concerned remember when we talk about concerned remember when we talk about gradient descent we don't just care gradient descent we don't just care gradient descent we don't just care about whether each component should get about whether each component should get about whether each component should get nudged up or down we care about which nudged up or down we care about which nudged up or down we care about which ones give you the most bang for your ones give you the most bang for your ones give you the most bang for your butt this by the way is at least butt this by the way is at least butt this by the way is at least somewhat reminiscent of a theory in somewhat reminiscent of a theory in somewhat reminiscent of a theory in Neuroscience for how biological networks Neuroscience for how biological networks Neuroscience for how biological networks of neurons learn heian theory often of neurons learn heian theory often of neurons learn heian theory often summed up in the phrase neurons that summed up in the phrase neurons that summed up in the phrase neurons that fire together wire together here the fire together wire together here the fire together wire together here the biggest increases to weights the biggest biggest increases to weights the biggest biggest increases to weights the biggest strengthening of connections happens strengthening of connections happens strengthening of connections happens between neurons which are the most between neurons which are the most between neurons which are the most active and the ones which we wish to active and the ones which we wish to active and the ones which we wish to become more active in a sense the become more active in a sense the become more active in a sense the neurons that are firing while seeing a neurons that are firing while seeing a neurons that are firing while seeing a two get more strongly linked to those two get more strongly linked to those two get more strongly linked to those firing when thinking about a to to be firing when thinking about a to to be firing when thinking about a to to be clear I really am not in a position to clear I really am not in a position to clear I really am not in a position to make statements one way or another about make statements one way or another about make statements one way or another about whether artif IAL networks of neurons whether artif IAL networks of neurons whether artif IAL networks of neurons behave anything like biological brains behave anything like biological brains behave anything like biological brains and this fires together wire together and this fires together wire together and this fires together wire together idea comes with a couple meaningful idea comes with a couple meaningful idea comes with a couple meaningful asterisks but taken as a very loose asterisks but taken as a very loose asterisks but taken as a very loose analogy I do find it interesting to note analogy I do find it interesting to note analogy I do find it interesting to note anyway the third way that we can help anyway the third way that we can help anyway the third way that we can help increase this neuron's activation is by increase this neuron's activation is by increase this neuron's activation is by changing all the activations in the changing all the activations in the changing all the activations in the previous layer namely if everything previous layer namely if everything previous layer namely if everything connected to that digit 2 neuron with a connected to that digit 2 neuron with a connected to that digit 2 neuron with a positive weight got brighter and if positive weight got brighter and if positive weight got brighter and if everything connected with a negative everything connected with a negative everything connected with a negative weight got dimmer then that digit 2 weight got dimmer then that digit 2 weight got dimmer then that digit 2 neuron would become more neuron would become more neuron would become more active and similar to the weight changes active and similar to the weight changes active and similar to the weight changes you're going to get the most bang for you're going to get the most bang for you're going to get the most bang for your buck by seeking changes that are your buck by seeking changes that are your buck by seeking changes that are proportional to the size of the proportional to the size of the proportional to the size of the corresponding corresponding corresponding weights now of course we cannot directly weights now of course we cannot directly weights now of course we cannot directly influence those activations we only have influence those activations we only have influence those activations we only have control over the weights and biases but control over the weights and biases but control over the weights and biases but just as with the last layer it's helpful just as with the last layer it's helpful just as with the last layer it's helpful to just keep a note of what those desire to just keep a note of what those desire to just keep a note of what those desire changes are but keep in mind zooming out changes are but keep in mind zooming out changes are but keep in mind zooming out one step here this is only what that one step here this is only what that one step here this is only what that digit 2 output neuron wants remember we digit 2 output neuron wants remember we digit 2 output neuron wants remember we also want all of the other neurons in also want all of the other neurons in also want all of the other neurons in the last layer to become less active and the last layer to become less active and the last layer to become less active and each of those other output neurons has each of those other output neurons has each of those other output neurons has its own thoughts about what should its own thoughts about what should its own thoughts about what should happen to that second to last layer so the desire of this digit 2 layer so the desire of this digit 2 neuron is added together with the neuron is added together with the neuron is added together with the desires of all the other output neurons desires of all the other output neurons desires of all the other output neurons for what should happen to this second to for what should happen to this second to for what should happen to this second to last layer again in proportion to the last layer again in proportion to the last layer again in proportion to the corresponding weights and in proportion corresponding weights and in proportion corresponding weights and in proportion to how much each of those neur needs to to how much each of those neur needs to to how much each of those neur needs to change this right here is where the idea change this right here is where the idea change this right here is where the idea of propagating backwards comes in by of propagating backwards comes in by of propagating backwards comes in by adding together all these desired adding together all these desired adding together all these desired effects you basically get a list of effects you basically get a list of effects you basically get a list of nudges that you want to happen to the nudges that you want to happen to the nudges that you want to happen to the second to last layer and once you have second to last layer and once you have second to last layer and once you have those you can recursively apply the same those you can recursively apply the same those you can recursively apply the same process to the relevant weights and process to the relevant weights and process to the relevant weights and biases that determine those values biases that determine those values biases that determine those values repeating the same process I just walked repeating the same process I just walked repeating the same process I just walked through and moving backwards through the network and zooming out a bit further network and zooming out a bit further remember that this is all just how a remember that this is all just how a remember that this is all just how a single training example wishes to nudge single training example wishes to nudge single training example wishes to nudge each one of those weights and biases if each one of those weights and biases if each one of those weights and biases if we only listen to what that two wanted we only listen to what that two wanted we only listen to what that two wanted the network would ultimately be the network would ultimately be the network would ultimately be incentivized just to classify all images incentivized just to classify all images incentivized just to classify all images as a two so what you do is you go as a two so what you do is you go as a two so what you do is you go through this same back propop routine through this same back propop routine through this same back propop routine for every other training example for every other training example for every other training example recording how each of them would like to recording how each of them would like to recording how each of them would like to change the weights and the biases and change the weights and the biases and change the weights and the biases and you average together those desired you average together those desired you average together those desired changes changes this collection here of the averaged this collection here of the averaged nudges to each weight and bias is nudges to each weight and bias is nudges to each weight and bias is Loosely speaking the negative gradient Loosely speaking the negative gradient Loosely speaking the negative gradient of the cost function referenced in the of the cost function referenced in the of the cost function referenced in the last video or at least something last video or at least something last video or at least something proportional to it I say Loosely proportional to it I say Loosely proportional to it I say Loosely speaking only because I have yet to get speaking only because I have yet to get speaking only because I have yet to get quantitatively precise about those quantitatively precise about those quantitatively precise about those nudges but if you understood every nudges but if you understood every nudges but if you understood every change that I just referenced why some change that I just referenced why some change that I just referenced why some are proportionally bigger than others are proportionally bigger than others are proportionally bigger than others and how they all need to be added and how they all need to be added and how they all need to be added together you understand the Mechanics together you understand the Mechanics together you understand the Mechanics for what back propagation is actually doing by the way in practice it takes doing by the way in practice it takes computers an extremely long time to add computers an extremely long time to add computers an extremely long time to add up the influence of every single up the influence of every single up the influence of every single training example every single gradient training example every single gradient training example every single gradient descent step so here's what's commonly descent step so here's what's commonly descent step so here's what's commonly done instead you randomly shuffle your done instead you randomly shuffle your done instead you randomly shuffle your training data and then divide it into a training data and then divide it into a training data and then divide it into a whole bunch of mini batches let's say whole bunch of mini batches let's say whole bunch of mini batches let's say each one having 100 training examples each one having 100 training examples each one having 100 training examples then you compute a step according to the then you compute a step according to the then you compute a step according to the mini batch it's not going to be the mini batch it's not going to be the mini batch it's not going to be the actual gradient of the cost function actual gradient of the cost function actual gradient of the cost function which depends on all of the training which depends on all of the training which depends on all of the training data not this tiny subset so it's not data not this tiny subset so it's not data not this tiny subset so it's not the most efficient step downhill but the most efficient step downhill but the most efficient step downhill but each mini batch does give you a pretty each mini batch does give you a pretty each mini batch does give you a pretty good approximation and more importantly good approximation and more importantly good approximation and more importantly it gives you a significant computational it gives you a significant computational it gives you a significant computational speed up if you were to plot the speed up if you were to plot the speed up if you were to plot the trajectory of your network under the trajectory of your network under the trajectory of your network under the relevant cost surface it would be a relevant cost surface it would be a relevant cost surface it would be a little more like a drunk man stumbling little more like a drunk man stumbling little more like a drunk man stumbling aimlessly down a hill but taking quick aimlessly down a hill but taking quick aimlessly down a hill but taking quick steps rather than a carefully steps rather than a carefully steps rather than a carefully calculating man determining the exact calculating man determining the exact calculating man determining the exact downhill direction of each step before downhill direction of each step before downhill direction of each step before taking a very slow and careful step in taking a very slow and careful step in taking a very slow and careful step in that that that direction this technique is referred to direction this technique is referred to direction this technique is referred to as stochastic gradient as stochastic gradient as stochastic gradient descent there's kind of a lot going on descent there's kind of a lot going on descent there's kind of a lot going on here so let's just sum it up for here so let's just sum it up for here so let's just sum it up for ourselves shall we back propagation is ourselves shall we back propagation is ourselves shall we back propagation is the algorithm for determining how a the algorithm for determining how a the algorithm for determining how a single training example would like to single training example would like to single training example would like to nudge the weights and biases not just in nudge the weights and biases not just in nudge the weights and biases not just in terms of whether they should go up or terms of whether they should go up or terms of whether they should go up or down but in terms of what relative down but in terms of what relative down but in terms of what relative proportions to those changes caus the proportions to those changes caus the proportions to those changes caus the most rapid decrease to the cost a true most rapid decrease to the cost a true most rapid decrease to the cost a true gradient descent step would involve gradient descent step would involve gradient descent step would involve doing this for all your tens and doing this for all your tens and doing this for all your tens and thousands of training examples and thousands of training examples and thousands of training examples and averaging the desired changes that you averaging the desired changes that you averaging the desired changes that you get but that's computationally slow so get but that's computationally slow so get but that's computationally slow so instead you randomly subdivide the data instead you randomly subdivide the data instead you randomly subdivide the data into these mini batches and compute each into these mini batches and compute each into these mini batches and compute each step with respect to a mini batch step with respect to a mini batch step with respect to a mini batch repeatedly going through all of the mini repeatedly going through all of the mini repeatedly going through all of the mini batches and making these adjustments you batches and making these adjustments you batches and making these adjustments you will converge towards a local minimum of will converge towards a local minimum of will converge towards a local minimum of the cost function which is to say your the cost function which is to say your the cost function which is to say your network is going to end up doing a network is going to end up doing a network is going to end up doing a really good job on the training really good job on the training really good job on the training examples so with all of that said every examples so with all of that said every examples so with all of that said every line of code that would go into line of code that would go into line of code that would go into implementing backprop actually implementing backprop actually implementing backprop actually corresponds with something that you have corresponds with something that you have corresponds with something that you have now seen at least in informal terms but now seen at least in informal terms but now seen at least in informal terms but sometimes knowing what the math does is sometimes knowing what the math does is sometimes knowing what the math does is only half the battle and just only half the battle and just only half the battle and just representing the damn thing is where it representing the damn thing is where it representing the damn thing is where it gets all muddled and confusing so for gets all muddled and confusing so for gets all muddled and confusing so for those of you who do want to go deeper those of you who do want to go deeper those of you who do want to go deeper the next video goes through the same the next video goes through the same the next video goes through the same ideas that were just presented here but ideas that were just presented here but ideas that were just presented here but in terms of the underlying calculus in terms of the underlying calculus in terms of the underlying calculus which should hopefully make it a little which should hopefully make it a little which should hopefully make it a little more familiar as you see the topic in more familiar as you see the topic in more familiar as you see the topic in other resources before that one thing other resources before that one thing other resources before that one thing worth emphasizing is is that for this worth emphasizing is is that for this worth emphasizing is is that for this algorithm to work and this goes for all algorithm to work and this goes for all algorithm to work and this goes for all sorts of machine learning Beyond just sorts of machine learning Beyond just sorts of machine learning Beyond just neural networks you need a lot of neural networks you need a lot of neural networks you need a lot of training data in our case one thing that training data in our case one thing that training data in our case one thing that makes handwritten digits such a nice makes handwritten digits such a nice makes handwritten digits such a nice example is that there exists the mnist example is that there exists the mnist example is that there exists the mnist database with so many examples that have database with so many examples that have database with so many examples that have been labeled by humans so a common been labeled by humans so a common been labeled by humans so a common challenge that those of you working in challenge that those of you working in challenge that those of you working in machine learning will be familiar with machine learning will be familiar with machine learning will be familiar with is just getting the labeled training is just getting the labeled training is just getting the labeled training data that you actually need whether data that you actually need whether data that you actually need whether that's having people label tens of that's having people label tens of that's having people label tens of thousands of images or whatever other thousands of images or whatever other thousands of images or whatever other data type you might be dealing with data type you might be dealing with
welcome to this basic video about welcome to this basic video about artificial neural networks artificial neural networks artificial neural networks a neural network consists of input nodes a neural network consists of input nodes a neural network consists of input nodes a hidden layer a hidden layer a hidden layer and output nodes and output nodes and output nodes for example these input nodes may for example these input nodes may for example these input nodes may represent three measurements that we do represent three measurements that we do represent three measurements that we do to determine if someone has prostate to determine if someone has prostate to determine if someone has prostate cancer or not cancer or not cancer or not suppose that the person enters the suppose that the person enters the suppose that the person enters the hospital hospital hospital we check the age we check the age we check the age and the concentration of the prostate and the concentration of the prostate and the concentration of the prostate specific antigen from a blood sample specific antigen from a blood sample specific antigen from a blood sample and collect a score between 1 and 5 from and collect a score between 1 and 5 from and collect a score between 1 and 5 from an MRI scan of the prostate an MRI scan of the prostate an MRI scan of the prostate then we plug in the corresponding values then we plug in the corresponding values then we plug in the corresponding values in the input nodes in the input nodes in the input nodes and use the network to tell if the and use the network to tell if the and use the network to tell if the person has prostate cancer or not person has prostate cancer or not person has prostate cancer or not to understand how neural Nets work we to understand how neural Nets work we to understand how neural Nets work we will here have a look at the super will here have a look at the super will here have a look at the super simple example simple example simple example at the end of this video we'll try to at the end of this video we'll try to at the end of this video we'll try to understand what happens if you include a understand what happens if you include a understand what happens if you include a hidden layer hidden layer hidden layer a look at some simple R code if you like a look at some simple R code if you like a look at some simple R code if you like to reproduce the first example shown in to reproduce the first example shown in to reproduce the first example shown in this video this video this video we will here see how to train a neural we will here see how to train a neural we will here see how to train a neural network to predict if someone has network to predict if someone has network to predict if someone has prostate cancer based on the PSA level prostate cancer based on the PSA level prostate cancer based on the PSA level our training data consists of seven our training data consists of seven our training data consists of seven patients that we know have prostate patients that we know have prostate patients that we know have prostate cancer cancer cancer and seven individuals that we know are and seven individuals that we know are and seven individuals that we know are healthy based on a blood sample healthy based on a blood sample healthy based on a blood sample we have determined the concentration of we have determined the concentration of we have determined the concentration of PSA or the prostate specific antigen in PSA or the prostate specific antigen in PSA or the prostate specific antigen in the blood of these individuals the blood of these individuals the blood of these individuals note that this data has been simulated note that this data has been simulated note that this data has been simulated for the purpose of this video for the purpose of this video for the purpose of this video we'll here use the simplest possible we'll here use the simplest possible we'll here use the simplest possible neural network model neural network model neural network model since we only have one measured variable since we only have one measured variable since we only have one measured variable the PSA concentration the network will the PSA concentration the network will the PSA concentration the network will only have just one input node only have just one input node only have just one input node note that we here do not have any hidden note that we here do not have any hidden note that we here do not have any hidden layer layer layer because we like to use the simplest because we like to use the simplest because we like to use the simplest possible Network possible Network possible Network the network has two output nodes because the network has two output nodes because the network has two output nodes because we here like to use the network to we here like to use the network to we here like to use the network to predict if someone has prostate cancer predict if someone has prostate cancer predict if someone has prostate cancer or not or not or not this is called a bias which is used to this is called a bias which is used to this is called a bias which is used to modify the activation function modify the activation function modify the activation function there are several different activation there are several different activation there are several different activation functions to select between functions to select between functions to select between we will here use the sigmoid function we will here use the sigmoid function we will here use the sigmoid function which is the same function that is used which is the same function that is used which is the same function that is used in logistic regression in logistic regression in logistic regression this will later allow us to compare the this will later allow us to compare the this will later allow us to compare the neural network with logistic regression neural network with logistic regression neural network with logistic regression let's make a plot of this data let's make a plot of this data let's make a plot of this data like this like this like this where these points represent the cancer where these points represent the cancer where these points represent the cancer patients that are hair coded as once patients that are hair coded as once patients that are hair coded as once whereas these points represents the whereas these points represents the whereas these points represents the healthy individuals that are coded as healthy individuals that are coded as healthy individuals that are coded as zeros zeros zeros for example this healthy individual has for example this healthy individual has for example this healthy individual has a PSA level of 2.5 a PSA level of 2.5 a PSA level of 2.5 whereas this cancer patient has a PSA whereas this cancer patient has a PSA whereas this cancer patient has a PSA level of 2.1 training a neural network means that we training a neural network means that we find the optimal values of the weights find the optimal values of the weights find the optimal values of the weights and the weight associated with the and the weight associated with the and the weight associated with the buyers buyers buyers so that the activation function in this so that the activation function in this so that the activation function in this case case case generates a sigmoid curve that can be generates a sigmoid curve that can be generates a sigmoid curve that can be used to predict the outcome in an used to predict the outcome in an used to predict the outcome in an optimal way optimal way optimal way note that the logistic activation note that the logistic activation note that the logistic activation function generates a value between 0 and function generates a value between 0 and function generates a value between 0 and 1. 1. 1. and that e is the Euler's number and that e is the Euler's number and that e is the Euler's number if you train this simple Network we will if you train this simple Network we will if you train this simple Network we will obtain the following weights obtain the following weights obtain the following weights let's use this network to see if this let's use this network to see if this let's use this network to see if this healthy person is correctly predicted as healthy person is correctly predicted as healthy person is correctly predicted as being healthy by the network being healthy by the network being healthy by the network we plug in its PSA level of 2.0 in the we plug in its PSA level of 2.0 in the we plug in its PSA level of 2.0 in the input node input node input node to calculate the probability that the to calculate the probability that the to calculate the probability that the person has cancer person has cancer person has cancer we use the weights associated with we use the weights associated with we use the weights associated with output node output node output node in this equation in this equation in this equation where W cro is the bias weight where W cro is the bias weight where W cro is the bias weight and this is the way for the input signal and this is the way for the input signal and this is the way for the input signal whereas this is the value of the input whereas this is the value of the input whereas this is the value of the input node node node since we only have one weight that is since we only have one weight that is since we only have one weight that is associated with the output node n is associated with the output node n is associated with the output node n is here equal to 1. here equal to 1. here equal to 1. let's plug in the weights in the let's plug in the weights in the let's plug in the weights in the equation equation equation and the value of the input node and the value of the input node and the value of the input node and do the math and do the math and do the math we now plug in this value in the we now plug in this value in the we now plug in this value in the logistic activation function logistic activation function logistic activation function and calculate and calculate and calculate this value is the value for the output this value is the value for the output this value is the value for the output node cancer node cancer node cancer which can in this case be seen as the which can in this case be seen as the which can in this case be seen as the probability that the person has prostate probability that the person has prostate probability that the person has prostate cancer cancer cancer let's place this value here let's place this value here let's place this value here we'll now calculate the value of this we'll now calculate the value of this we'll now calculate the value of this output node output node output node where we plug in the corresponding where we plug in the corresponding where we plug in the corresponding values in the equation values in the equation values in the equation and do the math and do the math and do the math let's place the corresponding value here let's place the corresponding value here let's place the corresponding value here which can be seen as the probability which can be seen as the probability which can be seen as the probability that the person is healthy that the person is healthy that the person is healthy we can now use some can of threshold to we can now use some can of threshold to we can now use some can of threshold to determine if you should classify the determine if you should classify the determine if you should classify the individual to have prostate cancer or individual to have prostate cancer or individual to have prostate cancer or not based on these two values not based on these two values not based on these two values a common kind of value to use in binary a common kind of value to use in binary a common kind of value to use in binary classification is 0.5 because it is the classification is 0.5 because it is the classification is 0.5 because it is the value between 0 and 1. value between 0 and 1. value between 0 and 1. based on this cutoff value the network based on this cutoff value the network based on this cutoff value the network will predict that the person with the will predict that the person with the will predict that the person with the PHA level of 2 is healthy or cost output PHA level of 2 is healthy or cost output PHA level of 2 is healthy or cost output value associated with the healthy class value associated with the healthy class value associated with the healthy class is greater than 0.5 is greater than 0.5 is greater than 0.5 note that this value is exactly the same note that this value is exactly the same note that this value is exactly the same value value value as if we would draw a vertical line from as if we would draw a vertical line from as if we would draw a vertical line from 2 to the logistic curve 2 to the logistic curve 2 to the logistic curve and then the horizontal line from the and then the horizontal line from the and then the horizontal line from the curve to the y-axis curve to the y-axis curve to the y-axis the height of the activation function is the height of the activation function is the height of the activation function is therefore equal to 0.438 this value is then simply just 1 minus this value is then simply just 1 minus 0.438 this value is equal to the height of the this value is equal to the height of the flipped curve flipped curve flipped curve because the slope of the curve should be because the slope of the curve should be because the slope of the curve should be negative if you go this way in the negative if you go this way in the negative if you go this way in the network if you have seen my previous videos if you have seen my previous videos about logistic regression you will note about logistic regression you will note about logistic regression you will note that such a model reproduced exact same that such a model reproduced exact same that such a model reproduced exact same results results results the estimated parameters of the logistic the estimated parameters of the logistic the estimated parameters of the logistic regression model regression model regression model are identical to the weights in this are identical to the weights in this are identical to the weights in this simple neural network simple neural network simple neural network P0 or The Intercept corresponds to the P0 or The Intercept corresponds to the P0 or The Intercept corresponds to the bias bias bias whereas B1 corresponds to the weight whereas B1 corresponds to the weight whereas B1 corresponds to the weight associated with the output node for associated with the output node for associated with the output node for prostate cancer prostate cancer prostate cancer if we plug in this equation into the if we plug in this equation into the if we plug in this equation into the activation function activation function activation function we will obtain the exact same function we will obtain the exact same function we will obtain the exact same function that is used in logistic regression that is used in logistic regression that is used in logistic regression we can therefore conclude that this we can therefore conclude that this we can therefore conclude that this simple neural network using the logistic simple neural network using the logistic simple neural network using the logistic activation function activation function activation function is identical to logistic regression is identical to logistic regression is identical to logistic regression let's see how well this neural network let's see how well this neural network let's see how well this neural network can predict the class of our training can predict the class of our training can predict the class of our training data data data this is the data that we used to train this is the data that we used to train this is the data that we used to train the network and this is the values the network and this is the values the network and this is the values generated by the output node for cancer generated by the output node for cancer generated by the output node for cancer which can be obtained if you plug in which can be obtained if you plug in which can be obtained if you plug in these values in the equation these values in the equation these values in the equation and the weights and the weights and the weights and then compute the corresponding and then compute the corresponding and then compute the corresponding values by the activation function values by the activation function values by the activation function for example this is the value that we for example this is the value that we for example this is the value that we calculated by hand previously based on calculated by hand previously based on calculated by hand previously based on the PSA level of 2.0 the PSA level of 2.0 the PSA level of 2.0 which corresponds to the height of the which corresponds to the height of the which corresponds to the height of the activation function activation function activation function we can now use the output values and the we can now use the output values and the we can now use the output values and the cutoff values 0.5 to see how well the cutoff values 0.5 to see how well the cutoff values 0.5 to see how well the model predicts the training data model predicts the training data model predicts the training data since these individuals had values since these individuals had values since these individuals had values greater than 0.5 they are predicted to greater than 0.5 they are predicted to greater than 0.5 they are predicted to have prostate cancer have prostate cancer have prostate cancer since you know that these individuals since you know that these individuals since you know that these individuals actually have prostate cancer we know actually have prostate cancer we know actually have prostate cancer we know that the neural network has made the that the neural network has made the that the neural network has made the correct predictions for these correct predictions for these correct predictions for these individuals individuals individuals however the network incorrectly predicts however the network incorrectly predicts however the network incorrectly predicts that this cancer patient is healthy that this cancer patient is healthy that this cancer patient is healthy these individuals have output values these individuals have output values these individuals have output values that are less than 0.5 that are less than 0.5 that are less than 0.5 which means that they are predicted to which means that they are predicted to which means that they are predicted to be healthy since we know that these be healthy since we know that these be healthy since we know that these individuals are healthy we know that individuals are healthy we know that individuals are healthy we know that they have been correctly classified by they have been correctly classified by they have been correctly classified by the network the network the network this healthy person is incorrectly this healthy person is incorrectly this healthy person is incorrectly classified as having prostate cancer classified as having prostate cancer classified as having prostate cancer because it has a relatively high PSA because it has a relatively high PSA because it has a relatively high PSA level level level in total the network makes 12 correct in total the network makes 12 correct in total the network makes 12 correct predictions out of 14 possible predictions out of 14 possible predictions out of 14 possible which gives an accuracy of about 86 which gives an accuracy of about 86 which gives an accuracy of about 86 percent percent percent however to get the fair estimate of how however to get the fair estimate of how however to get the fair estimate of how well the network would perform on new well the network would perform on new well the network would perform on new data data data we should use a test data set or we should use a test data set or we should use a test data set or cross-validation as we have done in all cross-validation as we have done in all cross-validation as we have done in all other machine learning methods that we other machine learning methods that we other machine learning methods that we have discussed so far have discussed so far have discussed so far watch the video about validation to see watch the video about validation to see watch the video about validation to see how to evaluate the classifier by the how to evaluate the classifier by the how to evaluate the classifier by the holdout method or by cross-validation holdout method or by cross-validation holdout method or by cross-validation once they have established a neural once they have established a neural once they have established a neural network that has been trained on some network that has been trained on some network that has been trained on some data we can use it for prediction data we can use it for prediction data we can use it for prediction suppose that we like to test if this suppose that we like to test if this suppose that we like to test if this person has prostate cancer or not person has prostate cancer or not person has prostate cancer or not from a blood sample from a blood sample from a blood sample we measure the PSA concentration to 1.75 we measure the PSA concentration to 1.75 we measure the PSA concentration to 1.75 nanograms per ml nanograms per ml nanograms per ml we plug in the value in the network we plug in the value in the network we plug in the value in the network we can then compute the values of the we can then compute the values of the we can then compute the values of the output nodes output nodes output nodes we therefore plug in the value of the we therefore plug in the value of the we therefore plug in the value of the input node here input node here input node here the weight of the buyers the weight of the buyers the weight of the buyers and this weight here and this weight here and this weight here and do the map and do the map and do the map then we plug in this value in the then we plug in this value in the then we plug in this value in the activation function activation function activation function and do the math again and do the math again and do the math again 1 minus 0.281 is 0.719 1 minus 0.281 is 0.719 1 minus 0.281 is 0.719 since this value is larger than the since this value is larger than the since this value is larger than the cutoff value of 0.5 the network predicts cutoff value of 0.5 the network predicts cutoff value of 0.5 the network predicts that the person is healthy that the person is healthy that the person is healthy we'll now try to understand where the we'll now try to understand where the we'll now try to understand where the values for the weights come from values for the weights come from values for the weights come from in this example these are the optimal in this example these are the optimal in this example these are the optimal values for the weights values for the weights values for the weights whereas these are the optimal values for whereas these are the optimal values for whereas these are the optimal values for the bias weights the bias weights the bias weights the weights are optimized by using some the weights are optimized by using some the weights are optimized by using some sort of cost function sort of cost function sort of cost function usually the maximum likelihood method usually the maximum likelihood method usually the maximum likelihood method for binary classification that we have for binary classification that we have for binary classification that we have covered in the videos about logistic covered in the videos about logistic covered in the videos about logistic regression regression regression the following weights were optimized by the following weights were optimized by the following weights were optimized by the negative log likelihood function the negative log likelihood function the negative log likelihood function we can also use the method of ordinary we can also use the method of ordinary we can also use the method of ordinary squares I will here explain the concept squares I will here explain the concept squares I will here explain the concept of ordinary squares because it is a bit of ordinary squares because it is a bit of ordinary squares because it is a bit simpler to understand simpler to understand simpler to understand in the videos about logistic regression in the videos about logistic regression in the videos about logistic regression I show how to calculate the log I show how to calculate the log I show how to calculate the log likelihood likelihood likelihood and in another video I share the and in another video I share the and in another video I share the difference between orderly squares and difference between orderly squares and difference between orderly squares and the maximum likelihood method based on the maximum likelihood method based on the maximum likelihood method based on the simple linear model the simple linear model the simple linear model when we use the method of lead squares when we use the method of lead squares when we use the method of lead squares we try to minimize this function that we try to minimize this function that we try to minimize this function that computes the sum of the squared errors computes the sum of the squared errors computes the sum of the squared errors these are the Y values of the these are the Y values of the these are the Y values of the observations which are in this example observations which are in this example observations which are in this example equal to zero if it is a healthy person equal to zero if it is a healthy person equal to zero if it is a healthy person and one if it is a patient with prostate and one if it is a patient with prostate and one if it is a patient with prostate cancer cancer cancer y hat is the value of the reactivation y hat is the value of the reactivation y hat is the value of the reactivation function that can go between 0 and 1. function that can go between 0 and 1. function that can go between 0 and 1. this difference is called a residual or this difference is called a residual or this difference is called a residual or an error which can be seen as the an error which can be seen as the an error which can be seen as the distance between observations and the distance between observations and the distance between observations and the Curve Curve Curve the Y value of this data point is zero the Y value of this data point is zero the Y value of this data point is zero and the value of the curve on the PSA and the value of the curve on the PSA and the value of the curve on the PSA level is equal to 2.5 is 0.75 level is equal to 2.5 is 0.75 level is equal to 2.5 is 0.75 which can be calculated like this based which can be calculated like this based which can be calculated like this based on the weights we previously estimated on the weights we previously estimated on the weights we previously estimated this results in a residual of negative this results in a residual of negative this results in a residual of negative 0.75 0.75 0.75 we then Square this residual we then Square this residual we then Square this residual we then do the same calculations for the we then do the same calculations for the we then do the same calculations for the next data point and so forth next data point and so forth next data point and so forth then we sum all the square residuals then we sum all the square residuals then we sum all the square residuals which here results in a value of 1.78 which here results in a value of 1.78 which here results in a value of 1.78 suppose that we now change the value of suppose that we now change the value of suppose that we now change the value of the bias from negative 5.754 the bias from negative 5.754 the bias from negative 5.754 to negative 8. that will move the curve a bit to the that will move the curve a bit to the right right right which will increase the sum of squared which will increase the sum of squared which will increase the sum of squared errors because the data points are now errors because the data points are now errors because the data points are now much farther away from the Curve much farther away from the Curve much farther away from the Curve let's paste the point here which let's paste the point here which let's paste the point here which represents that the sum of squared represents that the sum of squared represents that the sum of squared residuals or errors is 2.88 and the bias residuals or errors is 2.88 and the bias residuals or errors is 2.88 and the bias is set to negative 8. is set to negative 8. is set to negative 8. when the bias is set to negative 5.754 when the bias is set to negative 5.754 when the bias is set to negative 5.754 the sum of the squared errors was equal the sum of the squared errors was equal the sum of the squared errors was equal to 1.78 to 1.78 to 1.78 if you set the bias to negative 3 if you set the bias to negative 3 if you set the bias to negative 3 we'll move the curve a bit to the left we'll move the curve a bit to the left we'll move the curve a bit to the left which will result in that the sum of the which will result in that the sum of the which will result in that the sum of the squared errors is equal to 3.62 squared errors is equal to 3.62 squared errors is equal to 3.62 if we would try many different values of if we would try many different values of if we would try many different values of the buyer's weight the buyer's weight the buyer's weight we will be able to generate a curve that we will be able to generate a curve that we will be able to generate a curve that shows at the sum of the squared errors shows at the sum of the squared errors shows at the sum of the squared errors changes we will change the value or the changes we will change the value or the changes we will change the value or the weight associated with the bias weight associated with the bias weight associated with the bias the method of least squares finds the the method of least squares finds the the method of least squares finds the value of the weight that results in the value of the weight that results in the value of the weight that results in the lowest possible sum of squared errors lowest possible sum of squared errors lowest possible sum of squared errors this explains whether weight of the bias this explains whether weight of the bias this explains whether weight of the bias is equal to about negative 5.8 in this is equal to about negative 5.8 in this is equal to about negative 5.8 in this example because that value results in a example because that value results in a example because that value results in a curve that is as close as possible to curve that is as close as possible to curve that is as close as possible to the data points which we'll result in the data points which we'll result in the data points which we'll result in that the network predicts the prostate that the network predicts the prostate that the network predicts the prostate cancer in the best way to find the value of the weight that to find the value of the weight that results in the lowest sum of squared results in the lowest sum of squared results in the lowest sum of squared errors errors errors we need to start with an initial guess we need to start with an initial guess we need to start with an initial guess suppose that we initially guess the suppose that we initially guess the suppose that we initially guess the value or the weight to negative three value or the weight to negative three value or the weight to negative three then we use an algorithm such as the then we use an algorithm such as the then we use an algorithm such as the gradient descent where we step by smooth gradient descent where we step by smooth gradient descent where we step by smooth along the direction of the steepest along the direction of the steepest along the direction of the steepest descent descent descent like this If instead initially guess the value of If instead initially guess the value of the bias to negative 9. the bias to negative 9. the bias to negative 9. the gradient descent method will instead the gradient descent method will instead the gradient descent method will instead increase the value of the weight until increase the value of the weight until increase the value of the weight until it finds the value that minimizes the it finds the value that minimizes the it finds the value that minimizes the sum of the squared errors sum of the squared errors sum of the squared errors one problem occurs when we had a more one problem occurs when we had a more one problem occurs when we had a more complicated Network because the error complicated Network because the error complicated Network because the error function for such a network would then function for such a network would then function for such a network would then have several local minimals have several local minimals have several local minimals this means that if initially gets the this means that if initially gets the this means that if initially gets the value of the bias to negative 9 value of the bias to negative 9 value of the bias to negative 9 a method will move down to the local a method will move down to the local a method will move down to the local minimum and Report negative 8 as the minimum and Report negative 8 as the minimum and Report negative 8 as the best value best value best value which will result in a bad fit to the which will result in a bad fit to the which will result in a bad fit to the data data data if you initially guess the value to if you initially guess the value to if you initially guess the value to negative 6.5 negative 6.5 negative 6.5 or negative 3.5 or negative 3.5 or negative 3.5 then we will reach the global minimum then we will reach the global minimum then we will reach the global minimum which results in the best fit which results in the best fit which results in the best fit it is therefore important that we try it is therefore important that we try it is therefore important that we try many initial guesses or the weights many initial guesses or the weights many initial guesses or the weights during the learning process to find a during the learning process to find a during the learning process to find a network that can predict the data in the network that can predict the data in the network that can predict the data in the best way best way best way most software tools Generate random most software tools Generate random most software tools Generate random initial guesses or the weights initial guesses or the weights initial guesses or the weights which means that you might get different which means that you might get different which means that you might get different results every time you train your results every time you train your results every time you train your network network network we can make a similar error curve if we we can make a similar error curve if we we can make a similar error curve if we change this weight change this weight change this weight when we change this weight the Curve when we change this weight the Curve when we change this weight the Curve will change its slope will change its slope will change its slope when we estimate to weight when we estimate to weight when we estimate to weight simultaneously the error function will simultaneously the error function will simultaneously the error function will correspond to surface in a correspond to surface in a correspond to surface in a three-dimensional plot like this three-dimensional plot like this three-dimensional plot like this the combined values of the two weights the combined values of the two weights the combined values of the two weights that result in the minimum value of this that result in the minimum value of this that result in the minimum value of this function will result in the best fit to function will result in the best fit to function will result in the best fit to the data the data the data we'll now try to understand the purpose we'll now try to understand the purpose we'll now try to understand the purpose of using a hidden layer in neural of using a hidden layer in neural of using a hidden layer in neural networks networks networks to show the beauty of the Hidden layers to show the beauty of the Hidden layers to show the beauty of the Hidden layers suppose that we have the following data suppose that we have the following data suppose that we have the following data where one has measured a certain protein where one has measured a certain protein where one has measured a certain protein in blood samples from 10 cancer patients in blood samples from 10 cancer patients in blood samples from 10 cancer patients and five Health individuals and five Health individuals and five Health individuals people who are healthy have an people who are healthy have an people who are healthy have an intermediate level of this protein in intermediate level of this protein in intermediate level of this protein in their blood their blood their blood or as people with prostate cancer either or as people with prostate cancer either or as people with prostate cancer either have a low level have a low level have a low level or a high level or a high level or a high level if you would try to fit a logistic if you would try to fit a logistic if you would try to fit a logistic regimal would trade a neural network regimal would trade a neural network regimal would trade a neural network with a logistic activation function with a logistic activation function with a logistic activation function without a hidden layer without a hidden layer without a hidden layer maybe failed to make a good prediction maybe failed to make a good prediction maybe failed to make a good prediction of the training data because an s-shaped of the training data because an s-shaped of the training data because an s-shaped curve is simply not useful for this type curve is simply not useful for this type curve is simply not useful for this type of data of data of data these cancer patients will incorrectly these cancer patients will incorrectly these cancer patients will incorrectly be predicted to be healthy by them all be predicted to be healthy by them all be predicted to be healthy by them all and if you flip the curve these patients and if you flip the curve these patients and if you flip the curve these patients will instead incorrectly be predicted to will instead incorrectly be predicted to will instead incorrectly be predicted to be healthy be healthy be healthy the car might also look like this the car might also look like this the car might also look like this where all the healthy individuals will where all the healthy individuals will where all the healthy individuals will now be incorrectly predicted to have now be incorrectly predicted to have now be incorrectly predicted to have prostate cancer prostate cancer prostate cancer what we want is a car that looks like what we want is a car that looks like what we want is a car that looks like this this this this is where the hidden layer comes in this is where the hidden layer comes in this is where the hidden layer comes in because a neural network with one or because a neural network with one or because a neural network with one or several hidden layers can generate cool several hidden layers can generate cool several hidden layers can generate cool curves like this curves like this curves like this we'll here extend our previous network we'll here extend our previous network we'll here extend our previous network with one hidden layer with one hidden layer with one hidden layer if you train this network if you train this network if you train this network on the following data on the following data on the following data will obtain the following values or the will obtain the following values or the will obtain the following values or the weights weights weights node if you try to compute the neural node if you try to compute the neural node if you try to compute the neural network on the same data you will end up network on the same data you will end up network on the same data you will end up with different values compared to the with different values compared to the with different values compared to the one shown here because you will probably one shown here because you will probably one shown here because you will probably end up on a different local minimum to end up on a different local minimum to end up on a different local minimum to understand the calculations behind this understand the calculations behind this understand the calculations behind this neural network let's see how it predicts neural network let's see how it predicts neural network let's see how it predicts a person with a value of 3 or protein X a person with a value of 3 or protein X a person with a value of 3 or protein X the value of this node the value of this node the value of this node can be calculated like this can be calculated like this can be calculated like this which results in a value that is which results in a value that is which results in a value that is approximately equal to one approximately equal to one approximately equal to one let's set the value of this node to 1. let's set the value of this node to 1. let's set the value of this node to 1. the corresponding value of this node is the corresponding value of this node is the corresponding value of this node is 0.869 the value of this output node is the value of this output node is calculated based on calculated based on calculated based on the bias the bias the bias and the sum of the weight multiplied by and the sum of the weight multiplied by and the sum of the weight multiplied by the first node in the hidden layer the first node in the hidden layer the first node in the hidden layer and the way it multiplied by the second and the way it multiplied by the second and the way it multiplied by the second node in Hidden layer node in Hidden layer node in Hidden layer which results in a value that is which results in a value that is which results in a value that is approximately equal to one similarly the value of the second output similarly the value of the second output node is approximately equal to zero node is approximately equal to zero node is approximately equal to zero if the value of the input node is 3. if the value of the input node is 3. if the value of the input node is 3. the network will predict that the person the network will predict that the person the network will predict that the person has prostate cancer let's focus on how this output node is let's focus on how this output node is calculated calculated calculated this is how this node was calculated this is how this node was calculated this is how this node was calculated and this is how the values of the nodes and this is how the values of the nodes and this is how the values of the nodes in a hidden layer were calculated in a hidden layer were calculated in a hidden layer were calculated let's substitute X1 and x2 in the let's substitute X1 and x2 in the let's substitute X1 and x2 in the equation equation equation like this like this like this and we plug in this equation in and we plug in this equation in and we plug in this equation in activation function here activation function here activation function here so that we have the following function so that we have the following function so that we have the following function that can compute the value of the output that can compute the value of the output that can compute the value of the output node based on any input value node based on any input value node based on any input value let's move the function up here let's move the function up here let's move the function up here if you now calculate the value of the if you now calculate the value of the if you now calculate the value of the function based on a range of different function based on a range of different function based on a range of different values of X between 0 and 4. we will be values of X between 0 and 4. we will be values of X between 0 and 4. we will be able to generate a curve with this shape able to generate a curve with this shape able to generate a curve with this shape which predicts with 100 accuracy which predicts with 100 accuracy which predicts with 100 accuracy because all individuals with prostate because all individuals with prostate because all individuals with prostate cancer will get a value of approximately cancer will get a value of approximately cancer will get a value of approximately one and will therefore be correctly one and will therefore be correctly one and will therefore be correctly predicted to have prostate cancer predicted to have prostate cancer predicted to have prostate cancer whereas all the healthy individuals will whereas all the healthy individuals will whereas all the healthy individuals will get a predicted value of approximately get a predicted value of approximately get a predicted value of approximately zero which will result in that they are zero which will result in that they are zero which will result in that they are correctly predicted to be healthy correctly predicted to be healthy correctly predicted to be healthy similarly the corresponding function of similarly the corresponding function of similarly the corresponding function of this output node this output node this output node will generate the opposite curve will generate the opposite curve will generate the opposite curve this is the magical stuff behind neural this is the magical stuff behind neural this is the magical stuff behind neural networks they can help us to generate networks they can help us to generate networks they can help us to generate non-linear functions that can fit to non-linear functions that can fit to non-linear functions that can fit to almost any data that seems impossible to almost any data that seems impossible to almost any data that seems impossible to do with standard statistical methods do with standard statistical methods do with standard statistical methods we'll now discuss a few similarities and we'll now discuss a few similarities and we'll now discuss a few similarities and differences between neural networks and differences between neural networks and differences between neural networks and standard statistical models such as the standard statistical models such as the standard statistical models such as the logistic regression model logistic regression model logistic regression model the input in neural Nets is usually the input in neural Nets is usually the input in neural Nets is usually called a predictor or explanatory called a predictor or explanatory called a predictor or explanatory variable in logistic regression variable in logistic regression variable in logistic regression the output in neural Nets is usually the output in neural Nets is usually the output in neural Nets is usually called the response variable in logistic called the response variable in logistic called the response variable in logistic regression regression regression the weights in neural networks are the weights in neural networks are the weights in neural networks are usually called coefficients or usually called coefficients or usually called coefficients or parameters in logistic regression parameters in logistic regression parameters in logistic regression The Intercept in regression corresponds The Intercept in regression corresponds The Intercept in regression corresponds to the bias to the bias to the bias we usually say that we train the neural we usually say that we train the neural we usually say that we train the neural network whereas the corresponding thing network whereas the corresponding thing network whereas the corresponding thing in regression is called that we fit them in regression is called that we fit them in regression is called that we fit them all to the data would that be estimate all to the data would that be estimate all to the data would that be estimate the parameters in the model the parameters in the model the parameters in the model the parameters in regression are the parameters in regression are the parameters in regression are estimated by minimizing some error estimated by minimizing some error estimated by minimizing some error function such as the sum of squares in function such as the sum of squares in function such as the sum of squares in regression regression regression whereas the corresponding thing is whereas the corresponding thing is whereas the corresponding thing is called back propagation in neural Nets called back propagation in neural Nets called back propagation in neural Nets because we randomly assign the weights because we randomly assign the weights because we randomly assign the weights with some numbers with some numbers with some numbers then we see how well the network then we see how well the network then we see how well the network predicts the training data predicts the training data predicts the training data then we go back to update the values then we go back to update the values then we go back to update the values so that we improve the prediction so that we improve the prediction so that we improve the prediction this is iterated until we reach some this is iterated until we reach some this is iterated until we reach some convergence where the network can no convergence where the network can no convergence where the network can no longer improve the predictions based on longer improve the predictions based on longer improve the predictions based on the training data the training data the training data the parameters in regression usually the parameters in regression usually the parameters in regression usually have a meaning that we can interpret have a meaning that we can interpret have a meaning that we can interpret such as the odds ratio in the district such as the odds ratio in the district such as the odds ratio in the district regression regression regression whereas the values of the ways in the whereas the values of the ways in the whereas the values of the ways in the neural network usually have no meaning neural network usually have no meaning neural network usually have no meaning rather that they're used to make a good rather that they're used to make a good rather that they're used to make a good prediction prediction prediction in regression we usually compute P in regression we usually compute P in regression we usually compute P values that are associated with the values that are associated with the values that are associated with the parameters which require that to fulfill parameters which require that to fulfill parameters which require that to fulfill a set of assumptions a set of assumptions a set of assumptions since we use the estimated parameters to since we use the estimated parameters to since we use the estimated parameters to interpret the regression model we must interpret the regression model we must interpret the regression model we must find the global minimum of the error find the global minimum of the error find the global minimum of the error function function function whereas this is not crucial in neural whereas this is not crucial in neural whereas this is not crucial in neural networks because the network might networks because the network might networks because the network might predict the outcome just fine even predict the outcome just fine even predict the outcome just fine even though it has stopped on a local minimum finally we'll have a look at some basic finally we'll have a look at some basic R code if you like to reproduce the R code if you like to reproduce the R code if you like to reproduce the numbers in this video numbers in this video numbers in this video R is a free software tool that you can R is a free software tool that you can R is a free software tool that you can download from the following website download from the following website download from the following website we first plug in the data into an R we first plug in the data into an R we first plug in the data into an R script script script will he use the neural net package which will he use the neural net package which will he use the neural net package which you first need to install if you have you first need to install if you have you first need to install if you have not already done that not already done that not already done that then we load this package then we load this package then we load this package and train the neural network and train the neural network and train the neural network where we try to predict cancer versus where we try to predict cancer versus where we try to predict cancer versus healthy based on the PSA level which is healthy based on the PSA level which is healthy based on the PSA level which is the only input in this case the only input in this case the only input in this case we plug in the training data here we plug in the training data here we plug in the training data here since we in our example like to chain a since we in our example like to chain a since we in our example like to chain a neural network without a hidden layer we neural network without a hidden layer we neural network without a hidden layer we set this argument to zero set this argument to zero set this argument to zero and use the logistic activation function and use the logistic activation function and use the logistic activation function the arrow function is here set across the arrow function is here set across the arrow function is here set across entropy which in this example is the entropy which in this example is the entropy which in this example is the same thing as using the negative log same thing as using the negative log same thing as using the negative log likelihood function to estimate the likelihood function to estimate the likelihood function to estimate the weights we can print the output we can print the output and plot the network and plot the network and plot the network after after after 754 iterations to optimize the values of 754 iterations to optimize the values of 754 iterations to optimize the values of the weights in order to minimize the the weights in order to minimize the the weights in order to minimize the negative log likelihood function negative log likelihood function negative log likelihood function we have an error of 10.54 which in this we have an error of 10.54 which in this we have an error of 10.54 which in this case corresponds to the negative log case corresponds to the negative log case corresponds to the negative log likelihood value likelihood value likelihood value the smaller this value is the better the the smaller this value is the better the the smaller this value is the better the mole fits the data mole fits the data mole fits the data for example if you like to use the for example if you like to use the for example if you like to use the network for prediction we can use the network for prediction we can use the network for prediction we can use the function predict function predict function predict in this example the network will predict in this example the network will predict in this example the network will predict that the person with a PC level of 2 is that the person with a PC level of 2 is that the person with a PC level of 2 is healthy healthy healthy if you like to compare with the logistic if you like to compare with the logistic if you like to compare with the logistic regression model you can run the regression model you can run the regression model you can run the following line if you like to change the error function if you like to change the error function to the sum of squared errors you can set to the sum of squared errors you can set to the sum of squared errors you can set this argument to SSE this argument to SSE this argument to SSE the reason why here use a lower the reason why here use a lower the reason why here use a lower threshold for convergence compared to threshold for convergence compared to threshold for convergence compared to the default value of 0.01 is simply to the default value of 0.01 is simply to the default value of 0.01 is simply to get similar values as in logistic get similar values as in logistic get similar values as in logistic regression but this will be more regression but this will be more regression but this will be more computational expensive computational expensive computational expensive I also recommend that you run a number I also recommend that you run a number I also recommend that you run a number of repetitions of repetitions of repetitions in this example we will generate 10 in this example we will generate 10 in this example we will generate 10 networks that have been based on networks that have been based on networks that have been based on different initial values of the weights different initial values of the weights different initial values of the weights then you can study the output of these then you can study the output of these then you can study the output of these 10 networks and select the one with the 10 networks and select the one with the 10 networks and select the one with the lowest error in future videos we'll have a look at in future videos we'll have a look at networks where the output can result in networks where the output can result in networks where the output can result in several categories compared to the several categories compared to the several categories compared to the simple binary case we used in this video simple binary case we used in this video simple binary case we used in this video we'll also have a look at networks where we'll also have a look at networks where we'll also have a look at networks where the output is a continuous variable the output is a continuous variable the output is a continuous variable and see how the number of hidden nodes and see how the number of hidden nodes and see how the number of hidden nodes affects the output we will also discuss affects the output we will also discuss affects the output we will also discuss the problem of overfitting the problem of overfitting the problem of overfitting in another video I will cover non-linear in another video I will cover non-linear in another video I will cover non-linear regression which is highly related to regression which is highly related to regression which is highly related to neural networks neural networks neural networks this was the end of this basic video this was the end of this basic video this was the end of this basic video about artificial neural networks thanks about artificial neural networks thanks about artificial neural networks thanks for watching
in this video we're going to dive deeper in this video we're going to dive deeper into how neural networks and machine into how neural networks and machine into how neural networks and machine learning actually works behind the learning actually works behind the learning actually works behind the scenes and if you're learning machine scenes and if you're learning machine scenes and if you're learning machine learning you've probably come across a learning you've probably come across a learning you've probably come across a diagram that looks like this which often diagram that looks like this which often diagram that looks like this which often times if not most of the time confuses times if not most of the time confuses times if not most of the time confuses people because it's a bunch of circles people because it's a bunch of circles people because it's a bunch of circles and arrows and the explanation is and arrows and the explanation is and arrows and the explanation is usually just as confusing well it's usually just as confusing well it's usually just as confusing well it's simple you take your input circles and simple you take your input circles and simple you take your input circles and move them through your circles and you move them through your circles and you move them through your circles and you end up with your voila neural networks end up with your voila neural networks end up with your voila neural networks um and so that's not really a very good um and so that's not really a very good um and so that's not really a very good explanation at least it wasn't very good explanation at least it wasn't very good explanation at least it wasn't very good for me when i was learning so hopefully for me when i was learning so hopefully for me when i was learning so hopefully we're gonna break this down make it we're gonna break this down make it we're gonna break this down make it really simple because it's not really really simple because it's not really really simple because it's not really rocket science going into this it's not rocket science going into this it's not rocket science going into this it's not uh simple like abc's but it's not super uh simple like abc's but it's not super uh simple like abc's but it's not super complex either complex either complex either so if you guaranteed if you watch this so if you guaranteed if you watch this so if you guaranteed if you watch this video a few times it'll give you a big video a few times it'll give you a big video a few times it'll give you a big head start on what neural networks are head start on what neural networks are head start on what neural networks are and maybe even you'll be able to go and and maybe even you'll be able to go and and maybe even you'll be able to go and code some yourself if you have coding code some yourself if you have coding code some yourself if you have coding experience so here's the picture of the experience so here's the picture of the experience so here's the picture of the neural network we're actually going to neural network we're actually going to neural network we're actually going to use this diagram later but you're going use this diagram later but you're going use this diagram later but you're going to understand it so a good way to start to understand it so a good way to start to understand it so a good way to start is to block off this center layer we're is to block off this center layer we're is to block off this center layer we're going to call that the black box and going to call that the black box and going to call that the black box and this is what we've been doing if you've this is what we've been doing if you've this is what we've been doing if you've been watching my last two videos on been watching my last two videos on been watching my last two videos on machine learning let's just stick to the machine learning let's just stick to the machine learning let's just stick to the input and output data the training data input and output data the training data input and output data the training data right given this information here's the right given this information here's the right given this information here's the outcome these are our input dimensions outcome these are our input dimensions outcome these are our input dimensions and the output the outcome dimensions and the output the outcome dimensions and the output the outcome dimensions and then somewhere that black box in and then somewhere that black box in and then somewhere that black box in between runs over that information over between runs over that information over between runs over that information over and over and over again and each time it and over and over again and each time it and over and over again and each time it has a thousand knobs on that black box has a thousand knobs on that black box has a thousand knobs on that black box and it twists a little knob just a and it twists a little knob just a and it twists a little knob just a little bit at a time until while the little bit at a time until while the little bit at a time until while the black box is tuned and we can give it black box is tuned and we can give it black box is tuned and we can give it new input information and get the new input information and get the new input information and get the correct predicted outcome correct predicted outcome correct predicted outcome and so this video is going to dive into and so this video is going to dive into and so this video is going to dive into the hidden layers area that black box the hidden layers area that black box the hidden layers area that black box and how we configure it and what it does and how we configure it and what it does and how we configure it and what it does so there's some common configuration so there's some common configuration so there's some common configuration options no matter what machine learning options no matter what machine learning options no matter what machine learning or neural network library you're using or neural network library you're using or neural network library you're using there's some common configuration there's some common configuration there's some common configuration options that you're going to come across options that you're going to come across options that you're going to come across for configuring that neural network one for configuring that neural network one for configuring that neural network one how many hidden layers do we put in that how many hidden layers do we put in that how many hidden layers do we put in that black box we know we have an input layer black box we know we have an input layer black box we know we have an input layer and an output layer how many layers go and an output layer how many layers go and an output layer how many layers go in the middle and usually one is where in the middle and usually one is where in the middle and usually one is where you need to start off with that's pretty you need to start off with that's pretty you need to start off with that's pretty simple and straightforward and then how simple and straightforward and then how simple and straightforward and then how many nodes how many neurons go in that many nodes how many neurons go in that many nodes how many neurons go in that hidden layer hidden layer hidden layer and there's a few different ways you can and there's a few different ways you can and there's a few different ways you can kind of give yourself an answer to that kind of give yourself an answer to that kind of give yourself an answer to that there's not an exact science to it there's not an exact science to it there's not an exact science to it a good path is if your input and output a good path is if your input and output a good path is if your input and output dimensions are drastically different go dimensions are drastically different go dimensions are drastically different go somewhere in between if you have seven somewhere in between if you have seven somewhere in between if you have seven input values and two output values then input values and two output values then input values and two output values then yeah maybe three or four yeah maybe three or four yeah maybe three or four also you definitely want to be less than also you definitely want to be less than also you definitely want to be less than two times the input nodes if you get two times the input nodes if you get two times the input nodes if you get bigger than two times the input nodes bigger than two times the input nodes bigger than two times the input nodes you can get a situation called you can get a situation called you can get a situation called overfitting where you're just not gonna overfitting where you're just not gonna overfitting where you're just not gonna get accurate outcome get accurate outcome get accurate outcome also two-thirds the input nodes plus the also two-thirds the input nodes plus the also two-thirds the input nodes plus the output nodes that's a good kind of way output nodes that's a good kind of way output nodes that's a good kind of way to go and so if you kind of run the math to go and so if you kind of run the math to go and so if you kind of run the math on these three situations you'll kind of on these three situations you'll kind of on these three situations you'll kind of get some ideas on what how many nodes get some ideas on what how many nodes get some ideas on what how many nodes that hidden layer should have that hidden layer should have that hidden layer should have an activation function this is very an activation function this is very an activation function this is very important but i'm not going to go into important but i'm not going to go into important but i'm not going to go into it right now also learning rate and it right now also learning rate and it right now also learning rate and momentum are important but i'm not going momentum are important but i'm not going momentum are important but i'm not going to go into those right now to go into those right now to go into those right now lastly the iterations and the desired lastly the iterations and the desired lastly the iterations and the desired error level so iterations is how many error level so iterations is how many error level so iterations is how many times it goes over all the data in your times it goes over all the data in your times it goes over all the data in your data set um the desired error level is data set um the desired error level is data set um the desired error level is how accurate do you want this thing to how accurate do you want this thing to how accurate do you want this thing to be be be and depending on what you're going for and depending on what you're going for and depending on what you're going for basically training stops until you get basically training stops until you get basically training stops until you get to one or the other till you've gone to one or the other till you've gone to one or the other till you've gone through say 20 000 iterations or until through say 20 000 iterations or until through say 20 000 iterations or until your error level is 0.0001 and it's your error level is 0.0001 and it's your error level is 0.0001 and it's pretty accurate whatever you set the pretty accurate whatever you set the pretty accurate whatever you set the training is going to go till you get to training is going to go till you get to training is going to go till you get to one or the other of those so that's the one or the other of those so that's the one or the other of those so that's the configuration options that's actually configuration options that's actually configuration options that's actually not too bad that's how you tune your not too bad that's how you tune your not too bad that's how you tune your black box black box black box so if you have a little bit of knowledge so if you have a little bit of knowledge so if you have a little bit of knowledge as to what the black box is doing you as to what the black box is doing you as to what the black box is doing you can usually tune a neural network and can usually tune a neural network and can usually tune a neural network and move on from there and get good results move on from there and get good results move on from there and get good results so let's go to a real example using so let's go to a real example using so let's go to a real example using these circles and arrows that we have these circles and arrows that we have these circles and arrows that we have from before we have a data set this data from before we have a data set this data from before we have a data set this data set gives us fur color and weight of set gives us fur color and weight of set gives us fur color and weight of animals and also tells us if those animals and also tells us if those animals and also tells us if those animals were who's its or what's-its so animals were who's its or what's-its so animals were who's its or what's-its so we want to go through all of that data we want to go through all of that data we want to go through all of that data train our neural network to predict train our neural network to predict train our neural network to predict whose it's and what's it's based on fur whose it's and what's it's based on fur whose it's and what's it's based on fur color and weight um and so we've chosen color and weight um and so we've chosen color and weight um and so we've chosen three hidden layers based on the options three hidden layers based on the options three hidden layers based on the options that we showed you on the last slide that we showed you on the last slide that we showed you on the last slide so let's go ahead and then get our so let's go ahead and then get our so let's go ahead and then get our neural network initialize so to start neural network initialize so to start neural network initialize so to start off we basically want to create a stupid off we basically want to create a stupid off we basically want to create a stupid brain a brain that knows nothing so brain a brain that knows nothing so brain a brain that knows nothing so we're gonna just randomly create a bunch we're gonna just randomly create a bunch we're gonna just randomly create a bunch of weights you can see i'm going to get of weights you can see i'm going to get of weights you can see i'm going to get my mouse out here you can see we've got my mouse out here you can see we've got my mouse out here you can see we've got we've assigned a point one way to 0.38 we've assigned a point one way to 0.38 we've assigned a point one way to 0.38 just completely random numbers and these just completely random numbers and these just completely random numbers and these neurons these hidden layer neurons and neurons these hidden layer neurons and neurons these hidden layer neurons and nodes are going to also get a bias nodes are going to also get a bias nodes are going to also get a bias consider them coming in with an opinion consider them coming in with an opinion consider them coming in with an opinion already even though we don't know already even though we don't know already even though we don't know anything anything anything about how fur color and weight about how fur color and weight about how fur color and weight apply to who's it's and what's it's apply to who's it's and what's it's apply to who's it's and what's it's we're just going to start making guesses we're just going to start making guesses we're just going to start making guesses based on our bias consider them the based on our bias consider them the based on our bias consider them the liberals conservatives and libertarians liberals conservatives and libertarians liberals conservatives and libertarians and we're going to get them all in a and we're going to get them all in a and we're going to get them all in a room show them a bunch of real-life data room show them a bunch of real-life data room show them a bunch of real-life data and hopefully at the end of the thing and hopefully at the end of the thing and hopefully at the end of the thing they'll all agree they'll all agree they'll all agree on what is truth i'm you know i'm not on what is truth i'm you know i'm not on what is truth i'm you know i'm not going to say anything i no okay nope go going to say anything i no okay nope go going to say anything i no okay nope go not going there moving on so that's our not going there moving on so that's our not going there moving on so that's our hidden layers we initialize the network hidden layers we initialize the network hidden layers we initialize the network with just a bunch of completely random with just a bunch of completely random with just a bunch of completely random weights weights weights and biases and biases and biases and then moving on from there we're and then moving on from there we're and then moving on from there we're going to start with the first entry in going to start with the first entry in going to start with the first entry in our data set so entry number one we have our data set so entry number one we have our data set so entry number one we have an animal for color 25 and weight of 15 an animal for color 25 and weight of 15 an animal for color 25 and weight of 15 and it's a who's it it's a who's it one and it's a who's it it's a who's it one and it's a who's it it's a who's it one it's a what's it zero so now we start it's a what's it zero so now we start it's a what's it zero so now we start moving these input dimensions through moving these input dimensions through moving these input dimensions through the neural network it's called a the neural network it's called a the neural network it's called a feed-forward neural network for that feed-forward neural network for that feed-forward neural network for that reason so basically what we're going to reason so basically what we're going to reason so basically what we're going to do is we're going to take both of the do is we're going to take both of the do is we're going to take both of the input dimensions we're going to multiply input dimensions we're going to multiply input dimensions we're going to multiply them times the weight and then add the them times the weight and then add the them times the weight and then add the bias so here we go node 1 gets fur times bias so here we go node 1 gets fur times bias so here we go node 1 gets fur times 0.1 plus weight times 0.8 so we have our 0.1 plus weight times 0.8 so we have our 0.1 plus weight times 0.8 so we have our 0.1 weight and our 0.8 weight and then 0.1 weight and our 0.8 weight and then 0.1 weight and our 0.8 weight and then we're going to add the 0.71 bias so we're going to add the 0.71 bias so we're going to add the 0.71 bias so that's node number one so we're that's node number one so we're that's node number one so we're basically saying let's randomly basically saying let's randomly basically saying let's randomly guess guess guess how these two nodes uh affect our how these two nodes uh affect our how these two nodes uh affect our outcome let's just start with a guess outcome let's just start with a guess outcome let's just start with a guess and we're going to do that for each node and we're going to do that for each node and we're going to do that for each node a completely different set of weights a completely different set of weights a completely different set of weights and biases here a completely different and biases here a completely different and biases here a completely different set of weights and biases here you can set of weights and biases here you can set of weights and biases here you can see when we get down here we're taking see when we get down here we're taking see when we get down here we're taking fur times 0.57 fur times 0.57 fur times 0.57 plus weight times 1 and we're adding a plus weight times 1 and we're adding a plus weight times 1 and we're adding a 0.09 bias so we're basically making a 0.09 bias so we're basically making a 0.09 bias so we're basically making a random set of guesses random set of guesses random set of guesses and then we do the magic and then we run and then we do the magic and then we run and then we do the magic and then we run all those through an activation function all those through an activation function all those through an activation function and here's where the activation function and here's where the activation function and here's where the activation function is important here's where the magic of is important here's where the magic of is important here's where the magic of neural networks comes in is because neural networks comes in is because neural networks comes in is because we're trying to figure out answers to we're trying to figure out answers to we're trying to figure out answers to non-linear data non-linear data non-linear data and so and so and so i'm going to do a little bit of a i'm going to do a little bit of a i'm going to do a little bit of a tangent over here and kind of show you tangent over here and kind of show you tangent over here and kind of show you the difference between linear and the difference between linear and the difference between linear and non-linear data linear data is a non-linear data linear data is a non-linear data linear data is a straight line we can say that hey straight line we can say that hey straight line we can say that hey um as the weight and the fur collar goes um as the weight and the fur collar goes um as the weight and the fur collar goes up we know it's a greater chance of up we know it's a greater chance of up we know it's a greater chance of being a who's it as it goes down it's a being a who's it as it goes down it's a being a who's it as it goes down it's a greater chance of being a who's it or greater chance of being a who's it or greater chance of being a who's it or what's it or hey if the fur color's high what's it or hey if the fur color's high what's it or hey if the fur color's high or if the weight is high it's always or if the weight is high it's always or if the weight is high it's always going to be a who's it right so you going to be a who's it right so you going to be a who's it right so you could use this with some species if it's could use this with some species if it's could use this with some species if it's big it's a dog if it's small it's a big it's a dog if it's small it's a big it's a dog if it's small it's a mouse if it's small mouse if it's small mouse if it's small smaller than a certain size there's no smaller than a certain size there's no smaller than a certain size there's no way it's going to be a dog that's linear way it's going to be a dog that's linear way it's going to be a dog that's linear information you don't really need a information you don't really need a information you don't really need a neural network to solve answers on these neural network to solve answers on these neural network to solve answers on these you just need a little bit of math and you just need a little bit of math and you just need a little bit of math and the data should be pretty clear as to the data should be pretty clear as to the data should be pretty clear as to how the input correlates with the output how the input correlates with the output how the input correlates with the output non-linear is like this it just turns non-linear is like this it just turns non-linear is like this it just turns out differently um it may be high here out differently um it may be high here out differently um it may be high here and high here and high here and high here or it may kind of follow some unusual or it may kind of follow some unusual or it may kind of follow some unusual curves that are really difficult to curves that are really difficult to curves that are really difficult to figure out um on your own and so that's figure out um on your own and so that's figure out um on your own and so that's basically where your activation basically where your activation basically where your activation functions come in we're going to use a functions come in we're going to use a functions come in we're going to use a sigmoid or a tan or tan h or a tinch sigmoid or a tan or tan h or a tinch sigmoid or a tan or tan h or a tinch depending on who you are and where you depending on who you are and where you depending on who you are and where you come from uh and so we're going to come from uh and so we're going to come from uh and so we're going to basically apply that that sum value basically apply that that sum value basically apply that that sum value we're going to run it through one of we're going to run it through one of we're going to run it through one of these functions and introduce these functions and introduce these functions and introduce non-linearity to our neural network to non-linearity to our neural network to non-linearity to our neural network to help us kind of find out the answers to help us kind of find out the answers to help us kind of find out the answers to those questions so we've taken the sum those questions so we've taken the sum those questions so we've taken the sum right we've taken the sum times the right we've taken the sum times the right we've taken the sum times the weights and we've added in our bias and weights and we've added in our bias and weights and we've added in our bias and we're going to run that through our we're going to run that through our we're going to run that through our activation function now we're going to activation function now we're going to activation function now we're going to get a non-linear guess here get a non-linear guess here get a non-linear guess here and then we're going to continue running and then we're going to continue running and then we're going to continue running through until we get to our outcome and through until we get to our outcome and through until we get to our outcome and let's just throw out a number here let's let's just throw out a number here let's let's just throw out a number here let's say we ran it through ran it through say we ran it through ran it through say we ran it through ran it through activation function came through again activation function came through again activation function came through again here and we end up with just a random here and we end up with just a random here and we end up with just a random drawn out of the hat guess drawn out of the hat guess drawn out of the hat guess that uh it's point three five one two that uh it's point three five one two that uh it's point three five one two that it's a who's it and point seven that it's a who's it and point seven that it's a who's it and point seven eight one that it's a what's it eight one that it's a what's it eight one that it's a what's it completely wrong right our neural completely wrong right our neural completely wrong right our neural network is stupid it came in with just network is stupid it came in with just network is stupid it came in with just biases and random numbers and made a biases and random numbers and made a biases and random numbers and made a guess that was way off so then it's back guess that was way off so then it's back guess that was way off so then it's back propagation time we're going to propagation time we're going to propagation time we're going to calculate the error in the delta which calculate the error in the delta which calculate the error in the delta which is the difference and we're going to is the difference and we're going to is the difference and we're going to adjust all the weights and the biases adjust all the weights and the biases adjust all the weights and the biases we're going to go backwards through each we're going to go backwards through each we're going to go backwards through each step and we're going to adjust these step and we're going to adjust these step and we're going to adjust these biases and these weights biases and these weights biases and these weights some we're not going to necessarily some we're not going to necessarily some we're not going to necessarily adjust them all the way but we're going adjust them all the way but we're going adjust them all the way but we're going to adjust them some how do we know how to adjust them some how do we know how to adjust them some how do we know how much we're going to adjust them well we much we're going to adjust them well we much we're going to adjust them well we do that through our configurations the do that through our configurations the do that through our configurations the first one is learning rate learning rate first one is learning rate learning rate first one is learning rate learning rate says how much should this step outcome says how much should this step outcome says how much should this step outcome affect our weights and our biases and affect our weights and our biases and affect our weights and our biases and learning rate is you almost want to learning rate is you almost want to learning rate is you almost want to think of it as think of it as think of it as personality types there's the slow personality types there's the slow personality types there's the slow calculating type of person where if you calculating type of person where if you calculating type of person where if you were to show them here's a cat here's a were to show them here's a cat here's a were to show them here's a cat here's a dog they're going to say hmm dog they're going to say hmm dog they're going to say hmm i i have some ideas show me some more i i have some ideas show me some more i i have some ideas show me some more and then after you show them a whole and then after you show them a whole and then after you show them a whole bunch they'll slowly bunch they'll slowly bunch they'll slowly lean into the answer and then come up lean into the answer and then come up lean into the answer and then come up with a very calculated answer that's a with a very calculated answer that's a with a very calculated answer that's a low learning rate a high learning rate a low learning rate a high learning rate a low learning rate a high learning rate a ridiculously high learning rate would be ridiculously high learning rate would be ridiculously high learning rate would be oh you showed me a cat and a dog i oh you showed me a cat and a dog i oh you showed me a cat and a dog i calculated the differences between the calculated the differences between the calculated the differences between the two i know the difference two i know the difference two i know the difference and then you show them and then you show them and then you show them a really fluffy cat and they think it's a really fluffy cat and they think it's a really fluffy cat and they think it's a dog because they had way too high of a a dog because they had way too high of a a dog because they had way too high of a learning rate so that's what learning learning rate so that's what learning learning rate so that's what learning rate is rate is rate is and the momentum also says how should and the momentum also says how should and the momentum also says how should our past outcomes affect our weights and our past outcomes affect our weights and our past outcomes affect our weights and biases so past outcomes could say hey biases so past outcomes could say hey biases so past outcomes could say hey that that initial weight there keeps that that initial weight there keeps that that initial weight there keeps giving us way too high of an answer so giving us way too high of an answer so giving us way too high of an answer so we're going to keep that weight kind of we're going to keep that weight kind of we're going to keep that weight kind of going downward no matter what at least going downward no matter what at least going downward no matter what at least we're going to give it a little bit of we're going to give it a little bit of we're going to give it a little bit of momentum into this next step so each momentum into this next step so each momentum into this next step so each step kind of takes learning rate and step kind of takes learning rate and step kind of takes learning rate and momentum into account and we don't just momentum into account and we don't just momentum into account and we don't just want to make snap judgments and we also want to make snap judgments and we also want to make snap judgments and we also don't want to learn too slowly because don't want to learn too slowly because don't want to learn too slowly because we learn too slowly it takes forever to we learn too slowly it takes forever to we learn too slowly it takes forever to train our neural network so right it's train our neural network so right it's train our neural network so right it's kind of that balance between how fast do kind of that balance between how fast do kind of that balance between how fast do we want to train our data versus how we want to train our data versus how we want to train our data versus how accurate do we want that data to be accurate do we want that data to be accurate do we want that data to be that's kind of where your learning rate that's kind of where your learning rate that's kind of where your learning rate and momentum come from so here's kind of and momentum come from so here's kind of and momentum come from so here's kind of an example formula we're going to take an example formula we're going to take an example formula we're going to take our learning rates we're going to our learning rates we're going to our learning rates we're going to multiply the multiply it by the multiply the multiply it by the multiply the multiply it by the difference and then multiply it by what difference and then multiply it by what difference and then multiply it by what the actual value is now and we're going the actual value is now and we're going the actual value is now and we're going to add that to our momentum to add that to our momentum to add that to our momentum times our past change amount and that is times our past change amount and that is times our past change amount and that is our current change amount so that's kind our current change amount so that's kind our current change amount so that's kind of an example formula for how we use of an example formula for how we use of an example formula for how we use learning rate and momentum to determine learning rate and momentum to determine learning rate and momentum to determine how much to change a given weight and a how much to change a given weight and a how much to change a given weight and a bias bias bias so now we go through the next piece of so now we go through the next piece of so now we go through the next piece of data yay we did it we did one iteration data yay we did it we did one iteration data yay we did it we did one iteration through the first piece of our data set through the first piece of our data set through the first piece of our data set we're not through our third iteration we're not through our third iteration we're not through our third iteration yet we're gonna go to the next piece of yet we're gonna go to the next piece of yet we're gonna go to the next piece of our data set where fur color is 15 and our data set where fur color is 15 and our data set where fur color is 15 and weight is 35 and that's a what's it and weight is 35 and that's a what's it and weight is 35 and that's a what's it and so we do that through each piece of data so we do that through each piece of data so we do that through each piece of data in our data set and boom that is in our data set and boom that is in our data set and boom that is considered one iteration so we have an considered one iteration so we have an considered one iteration so we have an iteration and we have an average error iteration and we have an average error iteration and we have an average error rate there and then we can determine do rate there and then we can determine do rate there and then we can determine do we go through and do more iterations we go through and do more iterations we go through and do more iterations have you requested more than that um or have you requested more than that um or have you requested more than that um or have you requested that to be have you requested that to be have you requested that to be an acceptable error rate and if not then an acceptable error rate and if not then an acceptable error rate and if not then we just keep going so that's how you we just keep going so that's how you we just keep going so that's how you train a neural network you give it train a neural network you give it train a neural network you give it inputs inputs inputs through the random weights which get through the random weights which get through the random weights which get more accurate over time more accurate over time more accurate over time biases activation function which is huge biases activation function which is huge biases activation function which is huge and then you're going to calculate your and then you're going to calculate your and then you're going to calculate your error and you're going to back propagate error and you're going to back propagate error and you're going to back propagate some adjustments here to the weights and some adjustments here to the weights and some adjustments here to the weights and biases and when you're done you get a biases and when you're done you get a biases and when you're done you get a set of weights that are accurate a set set of weights that are accurate a set set of weights that are accurate a set of biases that are accurate and you can of biases that are accurate and you can of biases that are accurate and you can then run any input into it it goes then run any input into it it goes then run any input into it it goes through the weights and biases and you through the weights and biases and you through the weights and biases and you get a pretty good guesstimation of what get a pretty good guesstimation of what get a pretty good guesstimation of what that output's going to be and that's that output's going to be and that's that output's going to be and that's neural networks and machine learning in neural networks and machine learning in neural networks and machine learning in a nutshell i hope this video helped in a nutshell i hope this video helped in a nutshell i hope this video helped in the next video we're gonna actually go the next video we're gonna actually go the next video we're gonna actually go back to brain.js and watch all these back to brain.js and watch all these back to brain.js and watch all these configurations and all these options in configurations and all these options in configurations and all these options in action
in this video we're going to dive deeper in this video we're going to dive deeper into how neural networks and machine into how neural networks and machine into how neural networks and machine learning actually works behind the learning actually works behind the learning actually works behind the scenes and if you're learning machine scenes and if you're learning machine scenes and if you're learning machine learning you've probably come across a learning you've probably come across a learning you've probably come across a diagram that looks like this which often diagram that looks like this which often diagram that looks like this which often times if not most of the time confuses times if not most of the time confuses times if not most of the time confuses people because it's a bunch of circles people because it's a bunch of circles people because it's a bunch of circles and arrows and the explanation is and arrows and the explanation is and arrows and the explanation is usually just as confusing well it's usually just as confusing well it's usually just as confusing well it's simple you take your input circles and simple you take your input circles and simple you take your input circles and move them through your circles and you move them through your circles and you move them through your circles and you end up with your voila neural networks end up with your voila neural networks end up with your voila neural networks um and so that's not really a very good um and so that's not really a very good um and so that's not really a very good explanation at least it wasn't very good explanation at least it wasn't very good explanation at least it wasn't very good for me when i was learning so hopefully for me when i was learning so hopefully for me when i was learning so hopefully we're gonna break this down make it we're gonna break this down make it we're gonna break this down make it really simple because it's not really really simple because it's not really really simple because it's not really rocket science going into this it's not rocket science going into this it's not rocket science going into this it's not uh simple like abc's but it's not super uh simple like abc's but it's not super uh simple like abc's but it's not super complex either complex either complex either so if you guaranteed if you watch this so if you guaranteed if you watch this so if you guaranteed if you watch this video a few times it'll give you a big video a few times it'll give you a big video a few times it'll give you a big head start on what neural networks are head start on what neural networks are head start on what neural networks are and maybe even you'll be able to go and and maybe even you'll be able to go and and maybe even you'll be able to go and code some yourself if you have coding code some yourself if you have coding code some yourself if you have coding experience so here's the picture of the experience so here's the picture of the experience so here's the picture of the neural network we're actually going to neural network we're actually going to neural network we're actually going to use this diagram later but you're going use this diagram later but you're going use this diagram later but you're going to understand it so a good way to start to understand it so a good way to start to understand it so a good way to start is to block off this center layer we're is to block off this center layer we're is to block off this center layer we're going to call that the black box and going to call that the black box and going to call that the black box and this is what we've been doing if you've this is what we've been doing if you've this is what we've been doing if you've been watching my last two videos on been watching my last two videos on been watching my last two videos on machine learning let's just stick to the machine learning let's just stick to the machine learning let's just stick to the input and output data the training data input and output data the training data input and output data the training data right given this information here's the right given this information here's the right given this information here's the outcome these are our input dimensions outcome these are our input dimensions outcome these are our input dimensions and the output the outcome dimensions and the output the outcome dimensions and the output the outcome dimensions and then somewhere that black box in and then somewhere that black box in and then somewhere that black box in between runs over that information over between runs over that information over between runs over that information over and over and over again and each time it and over and over again and each time it and over and over again and each time it has a thousand knobs on that black box has a thousand knobs on that black box has a thousand knobs on that black box and it twists a little knob just a and it twists a little knob just a and it twists a little knob just a little bit at a time until while the little bit at a time until while the little bit at a time until while the black box is tuned and we can give it black box is tuned and we can give it black box is tuned and we can give it new input information and get the new input information and get the new input information and get the correct predicted outcome correct predicted outcome correct predicted outcome and so this video is going to dive into and so this video is going to dive into and so this video is going to dive into the hidden layers area that black box the hidden layers area that black box the hidden layers area that black box and how we configure it and what it does and how we configure it and what it does and how we configure it and what it does so there's some common configuration so there's some common configuration so there's some common configuration options no matter what machine learning options no matter what machine learning options no matter what machine learning or neural network library you're using or neural network library you're using or neural network library you're using there's some common configuration there's some common configuration there's some common configuration options that you're going to come across options that you're going to come across options that you're going to come across for configuring that neural network one for configuring that neural network one for configuring that neural network one how many hidden layers do we put in that how many hidden layers do we put in that how many hidden layers do we put in that black box we know we have an input layer black box we know we have an input layer black box we know we have an input layer and an output layer how many layers go and an output layer how many layers go and an output layer how many layers go in the middle and usually one is where in the middle and usually one is where in the middle and usually one is where you need to start off with that's pretty you need to start off with that's pretty you need to start off with that's pretty simple and straightforward and then how simple and straightforward and then how simple and straightforward and then how many nodes how many neurons go in that many nodes how many neurons go in that many nodes how many neurons go in that hidden layer hidden layer hidden layer and there's a few different ways you can and there's a few different ways you can and there's a few different ways you can kind of give yourself an answer to that kind of give yourself an answer to that kind of give yourself an answer to that there's not an exact science to it there's not an exact science to it there's not an exact science to it a good path is if your input and output a good path is if your input and output a good path is if your input and output dimensions are drastically different go dimensions are drastically different go dimensions are drastically different go somewhere in between if you have seven somewhere in between if you have seven somewhere in between if you have seven input values and two output values then input values and two output values then input values and two output values then yeah maybe three or four yeah maybe three or four yeah maybe three or four also you definitely want to be less than also you definitely want to be less than also you definitely want to be less than two times the input nodes if you get two times the input nodes if you get two times the input nodes if you get bigger than two times the input nodes bigger than two times the input nodes bigger than two times the input nodes you can get a situation called you can get a situation called you can get a situation called overfitting where you're just not gonna overfitting where you're just not gonna overfitting where you're just not gonna get accurate outcome get accurate outcome get accurate outcome also two-thirds the input nodes plus the also two-thirds the input nodes plus the also two-thirds the input nodes plus the output nodes that's a good kind of way output nodes that's a good kind of way output nodes that's a good kind of way to go and so if you kind of run the math to go and so if you kind of run the math to go and so if you kind of run the math on these three situations you'll kind of on these three situations you'll kind of on these three situations you'll kind of get some ideas on what how many nodes get some ideas on what how many nodes get some ideas on what how many nodes that hidden layer should have that hidden layer should have that hidden layer should have an activation function this is very an activation function this is very an activation function this is very important but i'm not going to go into important but i'm not going to go into important but i'm not going to go into it right now also learning rate and it right now also learning rate and it right now also learning rate and momentum are important but i'm not going momentum are important but i'm not going momentum are important but i'm not going to go into those right now to go into those right now to go into those right now lastly the iterations and the desired lastly the iterations and the desired lastly the iterations and the desired error level so iterations is how many error level so iterations is how many error level so iterations is how many times it goes over all the data in your times it goes over all the data in your times it goes over all the data in your data set um the desired error level is data set um the desired error level is data set um the desired error level is how accurate do you want this thing to how accurate do you want this thing to how accurate do you want this thing to be be be and depending on what you're going for and depending on what you're going for and depending on what you're going for basically training stops until you get basically training stops until you get basically training stops until you get to one or the other till you've gone to one or the other till you've gone to one or the other till you've gone through say 20 000 iterations or until through say 20 000 iterations or until through say 20 000 iterations or until your error level is 0.0001 and it's your error level is 0.0001 and it's your error level is 0.0001 and it's pretty accurate whatever you set the pretty accurate whatever you set the pretty accurate whatever you set the training is going to go till you get to training is going to go till you get to training is going to go till you get to one or the other of those so that's the one or the other of those so that's the one or the other of those so that's the configuration options that's actually configuration options that's actually configuration options that's actually not too bad that's how you tune your not too bad that's how you tune your not too bad that's how you tune your black box black box black box so if you have a little bit of knowledge so if you have a little bit of knowledge so if you have a little bit of knowledge as to what the black box is doing you as to what the black box is doing you as to what the black box is doing you can usually tune a neural network and can usually tune a neural network and can usually tune a neural network and move on from there and get good results move on from there and get good results move on from there and get good results so let's go to a real example using so let's go to a real example using so let's go to a real example using these circles and arrows that we have these circles and arrows that we have these circles and arrows that we have from before we have a data set this data from before we have a data set this data from before we have a data set this data set gives us fur color and weight of set gives us fur color and weight of set gives us fur color and weight of animals and also tells us if those animals and also tells us if those animals and also tells us if those animals were who's its or what's-its so animals were who's its or what's-its so animals were who's its or what's-its so we want to go through all of that data we want to go through all of that data we want to go through all of that data train our neural network to predict train our neural network to predict train our neural network to predict whose it's and what's it's based on fur whose it's and what's it's based on fur whose it's and what's it's based on fur color and weight um and so we've chosen color and weight um and so we've chosen color and weight um and so we've chosen three hidden layers based on the options three hidden layers based on the options three hidden layers based on the options that we showed you on the last slide that we showed you on the last slide that we showed you on the last slide so let's go ahead and then get our so let's go ahead and then get our so let's go ahead and then get our neural network initialize so to start neural network initialize so to start neural network initialize so to start off we basically want to create a stupid off we basically want to create a stupid off we basically want to create a stupid brain a brain that knows nothing so brain a brain that knows nothing so brain a brain that knows nothing so we're gonna just randomly create a bunch we're gonna just randomly create a bunch we're gonna just randomly create a bunch of weights you can see i'm going to get of weights you can see i'm going to get of weights you can see i'm going to get my mouse out here you can see we've got my mouse out here you can see we've got my mouse out here you can see we've got we've assigned a point one way to 0.38 we've assigned a point one way to 0.38 we've assigned a point one way to 0.38 just completely random numbers and these just completely random numbers and these just completely random numbers and these neurons these hidden layer neurons and neurons these hidden layer neurons and neurons these hidden layer neurons and nodes are going to also get a bias nodes are going to also get a bias nodes are going to also get a bias consider them coming in with an opinion consider them coming in with an opinion consider them coming in with an opinion already even though we don't know already even though we don't know already even though we don't know anything anything anything about how fur color and weight about how fur color and weight about how fur color and weight apply to who's it's and what's it's apply to who's it's and what's it's apply to who's it's and what's it's we're just going to start making guesses we're just going to start making guesses we're just going to start making guesses based on our bias consider them the based on our bias consider them the based on our bias consider them the liberals conservatives and libertarians liberals conservatives and libertarians liberals conservatives and libertarians and we're going to get them all in a and we're going to get them all in a and we're going to get them all in a room show them a bunch of real-life data room show them a bunch of real-life data room show them a bunch of real-life data and hopefully at the end of the thing and hopefully at the end of the thing and hopefully at the end of the thing they'll all agree they'll all agree they'll all agree on what is truth i'm you know i'm not on what is truth i'm you know i'm not on what is truth i'm you know i'm not going to say anything i no okay nope go going to say anything i no okay nope go going to say anything i no okay nope go not going there moving on so that's our not going there moving on so that's our not going there moving on so that's our hidden layers we initialize the network hidden layers we initialize the network hidden layers we initialize the network with just a bunch of completely random with just a bunch of completely random with just a bunch of completely random weights weights weights and biases and biases and biases and then moving on from there we're and then moving on from there we're and then moving on from there we're going to start with the first entry in going to start with the first entry in going to start with the first entry in our data set so entry number one we have our data set so entry number one we have our data set so entry number one we have an animal for color 25 and weight of 15 an animal for color 25 and weight of 15 an animal for color 25 and weight of 15 and it's a who's it it's a who's it one and it's a who's it it's a who's it one and it's a who's it it's a who's it one it's a what's it zero so now we start it's a what's it zero so now we start it's a what's it zero so now we start moving these input dimensions through moving these input dimensions through moving these input dimensions through the neural network it's called a the neural network it's called a the neural network it's called a feed-forward neural network for that feed-forward neural network for that feed-forward neural network for that reason so basically what we're going to reason so basically what we're going to reason so basically what we're going to do is we're going to take both of the do is we're going to take both of the do is we're going to take both of the input dimensions we're going to multiply input dimensions we're going to multiply input dimensions we're going to multiply them times the weight and then add the them times the weight and then add the them times the weight and then add the bias so here we go node 1 gets fur times bias so here we go node 1 gets fur times bias so here we go node 1 gets fur times 0.1 plus weight times 0.8 so we have our 0.1 plus weight times 0.8 so we have our 0.1 plus weight times 0.8 so we have our 0.1 weight and our 0.8 weight and then 0.1 weight and our 0.8 weight and then 0.1 weight and our 0.8 weight and then we're going to add the 0.71 bias so we're going to add the 0.71 bias so we're going to add the 0.71 bias so that's node number one so we're that's node number one so we're that's node number one so we're basically saying let's randomly basically saying let's randomly basically saying let's randomly guess guess guess how these two nodes uh affect our how these two nodes uh affect our how these two nodes uh affect our outcome let's just start with a guess outcome let's just start with a guess outcome let's just start with a guess and we're going to do that for each node and we're going to do that for each node and we're going to do that for each node a completely different set of weights a completely different set of weights a completely different set of weights and biases here a completely different and biases here a completely different and biases here a completely different set of weights and biases here you can set of weights and biases here you can set of weights and biases here you can see when we get down here we're taking see when we get down here we're taking see when we get down here we're taking fur times 0.57 fur times 0.57 fur times 0.57 plus weight times 1 and we're adding a plus weight times 1 and we're adding a plus weight times 1 and we're adding a 0.09 bias so we're basically making a 0.09 bias so we're basically making a 0.09 bias so we're basically making a random set of guesses random set of guesses random set of guesses and then we do the magic and then we run and then we do the magic and then we run and then we do the magic and then we run all those through an activation function all those through an activation function all those through an activation function and here's where the activation function and here's where the activation function and here's where the activation function is important here's where the magic of is important here's where the magic of is important here's where the magic of neural networks comes in is because neural networks comes in is because neural networks comes in is because we're trying to figure out answers to we're trying to figure out answers to we're trying to figure out answers to non-linear data non-linear data non-linear data and so and so and so i'm going to do a little bit of a i'm going to do a little bit of a i'm going to do a little bit of a tangent over here and kind of show you tangent over here and kind of show you tangent over here and kind of show you the difference between linear and the difference between linear and the difference between linear and non-linear data linear data is a non-linear data linear data is a non-linear data linear data is a straight line we can say that hey straight line we can say that hey straight line we can say that hey um as the weight and the fur collar goes um as the weight and the fur collar goes um as the weight and the fur collar goes up we know it's a greater chance of up we know it's a greater chance of up we know it's a greater chance of being a who's it as it goes down it's a being a who's it as it goes down it's a being a who's it as it goes down it's a greater chance of being a who's it or greater chance of being a who's it or greater chance of being a who's it or what's it or hey if the fur color's high what's it or hey if the fur color's high what's it or hey if the fur color's high or if the weight is high it's always or if the weight is high it's always or if the weight is high it's always going to be a who's it right so you going to be a who's it right so you going to be a who's it right so you could use this with some species if it's could use this with some species if it's could use this with some species if it's big it's a dog if it's small it's a big it's a dog if it's small it's a big it's a dog if it's small it's a mouse if it's small mouse if it's small mouse if it's small smaller than a certain size there's no smaller than a certain size there's no smaller than a certain size there's no way it's going to be a dog that's linear way it's going to be a dog that's linear way it's going to be a dog that's linear information you don't really need a information you don't really need a information you don't really need a neural network to solve answers on these neural network to solve answers on these neural network to solve answers on these you just need a little bit of math and you just need a little bit of math and you just need a little bit of math and the data should be pretty clear as to the data should be pretty clear as to the data should be pretty clear as to how the input correlates with the output how the input correlates with the output how the input correlates with the output non-linear is like this it just turns non-linear is like this it just turns non-linear is like this it just turns out differently um it may be high here out differently um it may be high here out differently um it may be high here and high here and high here and high here or it may kind of follow some unusual or it may kind of follow some unusual or it may kind of follow some unusual curves that are really difficult to curves that are really difficult to curves that are really difficult to figure out um on your own and so that's figure out um on your own and so that's figure out um on your own and so that's basically where your activation basically where your activation basically where your activation functions come in we're going to use a functions come in we're going to use a functions come in we're going to use a sigmoid or a tan or tan h or a tinch sigmoid or a tan or tan h or a tinch sigmoid or a tan or tan h or a tinch depending on who you are and where you depending on who you are and where you depending on who you are and where you come from uh and so we're going to come from uh and so we're going to come from uh and so we're going to basically apply that that sum value basically apply that that sum value basically apply that that sum value we're going to run it through one of we're going to run it through one of we're going to run it through one of these functions and introduce these functions and introduce these functions and introduce non-linearity to our neural network to non-linearity to our neural network to non-linearity to our neural network to help us kind of find out the answers to help us kind of find out the answers to help us kind of find out the answers to those questions so we've taken the sum those questions so we've taken the sum those questions so we've taken the sum right we've taken the sum times the right we've taken the sum times the right we've taken the sum times the weights and we've added in our bias and weights and we've added in our bias and weights and we've added in our bias and we're going to run that through our we're going to run that through our we're going to run that through our activation function now we're going to activation function now we're going to activation function now we're going to get a non-linear guess here get a non-linear guess here get a non-linear guess here and then we're going to continue running and then we're going to continue running and then we're going to continue running through until we get to our outcome and through until we get to our outcome and through until we get to our outcome and let's just throw out a number here let's let's just throw out a number here let's let's just throw out a number here let's say we ran it through ran it through say we ran it through ran it through say we ran it through ran it through activation function came through again activation function came through again activation function came through again here and we end up with just a random here and we end up with just a random here and we end up with just a random drawn out of the hat guess drawn out of the hat guess drawn out of the hat guess that uh it's point three five one two that uh it's point three five one two that uh it's point three five one two that it's a who's it and point seven that it's a who's it and point seven that it's a who's it and point seven eight one that it's a what's it eight one that it's a what's it eight one that it's a what's it completely wrong right our neural completely wrong right our neural completely wrong right our neural network is stupid it came in with just network is stupid it came in with just network is stupid it came in with just biases and random numbers and made a biases and random numbers and made a biases and random numbers and made a guess that was way off so then it's back guess that was way off so then it's back guess that was way off so then it's back propagation time we're going to propagation time we're going to propagation time we're going to calculate the error in the delta which calculate the error in the delta which calculate the error in the delta which is the difference and we're going to is the difference and we're going to is the difference and we're going to adjust all the weights and the biases adjust all the weights and the biases adjust all the weights and the biases we're going to go backwards through each we're going to go backwards through each we're going to go backwards through each step and we're going to adjust these step and we're going to adjust these step and we're going to adjust these biases and these weights biases and these weights biases and these weights some we're not going to necessarily some we're not going to necessarily some we're not going to necessarily adjust them all the way but we're going adjust them all the way but we're going adjust them all the way but we're going to adjust them some how do we know how to adjust them some how do we know how to adjust them some how do we know how much we're going to adjust them well we much we're going to adjust them well we much we're going to adjust them well we do that through our configurations the do that through our configurations the do that through our configurations the first one is learning rate learning rate first one is learning rate learning rate first one is learning rate learning rate says how much should this step outcome says how much should this step outcome says how much should this step outcome affect our weights and our biases and affect our weights and our biases and affect our weights and our biases and learning rate is you almost want to learning rate is you almost want to learning rate is you almost want to think of it as think of it as think of it as personality types there's the slow personality types there's the slow personality types there's the slow calculating type of person where if you calculating type of person where if you calculating type of person where if you were to show them here's a cat here's a were to show them here's a cat here's a were to show them here's a cat here's a dog they're going to say hmm dog they're going to say hmm dog they're going to say hmm i i have some ideas show me some more i i have some ideas show me some more i i have some ideas show me some more and then after you show them a whole and then after you show them a whole and then after you show them a whole bunch they'll slowly bunch they'll slowly bunch they'll slowly lean into the answer and then come up lean into the answer and then come up lean into the answer and then come up with a very calculated answer that's a with a very calculated answer that's a with a very calculated answer that's a low learning rate a high learning rate a low learning rate a high learning rate a low learning rate a high learning rate a ridiculously high learning rate would be ridiculously high learning rate would be ridiculously high learning rate would be oh you showed me a cat and a dog i oh you showed me a cat and a dog i oh you showed me a cat and a dog i calculated the differences between the calculated the differences between the calculated the differences between the two i know the difference two i know the difference two i know the difference and then you show them and then you show them and then you show them a really fluffy cat and they think it's a really fluffy cat and they think it's a really fluffy cat and they think it's a dog because they had way too high of a a dog because they had way too high of a a dog because they had way too high of a learning rate so that's what learning learning rate so that's what learning learning rate so that's what learning rate is rate is rate is and the momentum also says how should and the momentum also says how should and the momentum also says how should our past outcomes affect our weights and our past outcomes affect our weights and our past outcomes affect our weights and biases so past outcomes could say hey biases so past outcomes could say hey biases so past outcomes could say hey that that initial weight there keeps that that initial weight there keeps that that initial weight there keeps giving us way too high of an answer so giving us way too high of an answer so giving us way too high of an answer so we're going to keep that weight kind of we're going to keep that weight kind of we're going to keep that weight kind of going downward no matter what at least going downward no matter what at least going downward no matter what at least we're going to give it a little bit of we're going to give it a little bit of we're going to give it a little bit of momentum into this next step so each momentum into this next step so each momentum into this next step so each step kind of takes learning rate and step kind of takes learning rate and step kind of takes learning rate and momentum into account and we don't just momentum into account and we don't just momentum into account and we don't just want to make snap judgments and we also want to make snap judgments and we also want to make snap judgments and we also don't want to learn too slowly because don't want to learn too slowly because don't want to learn too slowly because we learn too slowly it takes forever to we learn too slowly it takes forever to we learn too slowly it takes forever to train our neural network so right it's train our neural network so right it's train our neural network so right it's kind of that balance between how fast do kind of that balance between how fast do kind of that balance between how fast do we want to train our data versus how we want to train our data versus how we want to train our data versus how accurate do we want that data to be accurate do we want that data to be accurate do we want that data to be that's kind of where your learning rate that's kind of where your learning rate that's kind of where your learning rate and momentum come from so here's kind of and momentum come from so here's kind of and momentum come from so here's kind of an example formula we're going to take an example formula we're going to take an example formula we're going to take our learning rates we're going to our learning rates we're going to our learning rates we're going to multiply the multiply it by the multiply the multiply it by the multiply the multiply it by the difference and then multiply it by what difference and then multiply it by what difference and then multiply it by what the actual value is now and we're going the actual value is now and we're going the actual value is now and we're going to add that to our momentum to add that to our momentum to add that to our momentum times our past change amount and that is times our past change amount and that is times our past change amount and that is our current change amount so that's kind our current change amount so that's kind our current change amount so that's kind of an example formula for how we use of an example formula for how we use of an example formula for how we use learning rate and momentum to determine learning rate and momentum to determine learning rate and momentum to determine how much to change a given weight and a how much to change a given weight and a how much to change a given weight and a bias bias bias so now we go through the next piece of so now we go through the next piece of so now we go through the next piece of data yay we did it we did one iteration data yay we did it we did one iteration data yay we did it we did one iteration through the first piece of our data set through the first piece of our data set through the first piece of our data set we're not through our third iteration we're not through our third iteration we're not through our third iteration yet we're gonna go to the next piece of yet we're gonna go to the next piece of yet we're gonna go to the next piece of our data set where fur color is 15 and our data set where fur color is 15 and our data set where fur color is 15 and weight is 35 and that's a what's it and weight is 35 and that's a what's it and weight is 35 and that's a what's it and so we do that through each piece of data so we do that through each piece of data so we do that through each piece of data in our data set and boom that is in our data set and boom that is in our data set and boom that is considered one iteration so we have an considered one iteration so we have an considered one iteration so we have an iteration and we have an average error iteration and we have an average error iteration and we have an average error rate there and then we can determine do rate there and then we can determine do rate there and then we can determine do we go through and do more iterations we go through and do more iterations we go through and do more iterations have you requested more than that um or have you requested more than that um or have you requested more than that um or have you requested that to be have you requested that to be have you requested that to be an acceptable error rate and if not then an acceptable error rate and if not then an acceptable error rate and if not then we just keep going so that's how you we just keep going so that's how you we just keep going so that's how you train a neural network you give it train a neural network you give it train a neural network you give it inputs inputs inputs through the random weights which get through the random weights which get through the random weights which get more accurate over time more accurate over time more accurate over time biases activation function which is huge biases activation function which is huge biases activation function which is huge and then you're going to calculate your and then you're going to calculate your and then you're going to calculate your error and you're going to back propagate error and you're going to back propagate error and you're going to back propagate some adjustments here to the weights and some adjustments here to the weights and some adjustments here to the weights and biases and when you're done you get a biases and when you're done you get a biases and when you're done you get a set of weights that are accurate a set set of weights that are accurate a set set of weights that are accurate a set of biases that are accurate and you can of biases that are accurate and you can of biases that are accurate and you can then run any input into it it goes then run any input into it it goes then run any input into it it goes through the weights and biases and you through the weights and biases and you through the weights and biases and you get a pretty good guesstimation of what get a pretty good guesstimation of what get a pretty good guesstimation of what that output's going to be and that's that output's going to be and that's that output's going to be and that's neural networks and machine learning in neural networks and machine learning in neural networks and machine learning in a nutshell i hope this video helped in a nutshell i hope this video helped in a nutshell i hope this video helped in the next video we're gonna actually go the next video we're gonna actually go the next video we're gonna actually go back to brain.js and watch all these back to brain.js and watch all these back to brain.js and watch all these configurations and all these options in configurations and all these options in configurations and all these options in action
hey uncle and welcome to crash course AI hey uncle and welcome to crash course AI one way to make an artificial brain is one way to make an artificial brain is one way to make an artificial brain is by creating a neural network which can by creating a neural network which can by creating a neural network which can have millions of neurons and billions or have millions of neurons and billions or have millions of neurons and billions or trillions of connections between them trillions of connections between them trillions of connections between them nowadays some neural networks are fast nowadays some neural networks are fast nowadays some neural networks are fast and big enough to do some tasks even and big enough to do some tasks even and big enough to do some tasks even better than humans can better than humans can better than humans can like for example playing chess or like for example playing chess or like for example playing chess or predicting the weather but as we've predicting the weather but as we've predicting the weather but as we've talked about in crash course AI no talked about in crash course AI no talked about in crash course AI no networks don't just work on their own networks don't just work on their own networks don't just work on their own they need to learn to solve problems for they need to learn to solve problems for they need to learn to solve problems for making mistakes sounds kind of like us making mistakes sounds kind of like us making mistakes sounds kind of like us right right neuro-networks handle mistakes by using neuro-networks handle mistakes by using an algorithm called back propagation to an algorithm called back propagation to an algorithm called back propagation to make sure all the neurons that make sure all the neurons that make sure all the neurons that contributed to an error get their math contributed to an error get their math contributed to an error get their math adjusted and we'll unpack this a bit adjusted and we'll unpack this a bit adjusted and we'll unpack this a bit later and neural networks have two main later and neural networks have two main later and neural networks have two main parts the architecture and the weights parts the architecture and the weights parts the architecture and the weights the architecture includes neurons and the architecture includes neurons and the architecture includes neurons and their connections and the weights are their connections and the weights are their connections and the weights are numbers that fine-tune how the neurons numbers that fine-tune how the neurons numbers that fine-tune how the neurons compute an output so if a neural network compute an output so if a neural network compute an output so if a neural network makes a mistake this often means the makes a mistake this often means the makes a mistake this often means the weights aren't adjusted correctly and we weights aren't adjusted correctly and we weights aren't adjusted correctly and we need to update them so they make better need to update them so they make better need to update them so they make better predictions next time the task of predictions next time the task of predictions next time the task of finding the best ways for a neural finding the best ways for a neural finding the best ways for a neural network architecture is called network architecture is called network architecture is called optimization and the best way to optimization and the best way to optimization and the best way to understand some basic principles of understand some basic principles of understand some basic principles of optimization is with an example with the optimization is with an example with the optimization is with an example with the help of my pal John Green but say that I help of my pal John Green but say that I help of my pal John Green but say that I manage a swimming pool and I want to manage a swimming pool and I want to manage a swimming pool and I want to predict how many people will come next predict how many people will come next predict how many people will come next week so that I can schedule enough week so that I can schedule enough week so that I can schedule enough lifeguards a simple way to do this is by lifeguards a simple way to do this is by lifeguards a simple way to do this is by graphing some data points like the graphing some data points like the graphing some data points like the number of swimmers and the temperature number of swimmers and the temperature number of swimmers and the temperature in Fahrenheit for every day over the in Fahrenheit for every day over the in Fahrenheit for every day over the past few weeks then we can look for a past few weeks then we can look for a past few weeks then we can look for a pattern in that graph to make pattern in that graph to make pattern in that graph to make predictions the way computers do this is predictions the way computers do this is predictions the way computers do this is with an optimization strategy called with an optimization strategy called with an optimization strategy called linear regression we start by drawing a linear regression we start by drawing a linear regression we start by drawing a random straight line on the graph which random straight line on the graph which random straight line on the graph which kind of fits the data points to optimize kind of fits the data points to optimize kind of fits the data points to optimize though we need to know how incorrect though we need to know how incorrect though we need to know how incorrect this guess is so we calculate the this guess is so we calculate the this guess is so we calculate the distance between the line and each of distance between the line and each of distance between the line and each of the data points add it all up and that the data points add it all up and that the data points add it all up and that gives us the error gives us the error gives us the error we're quantifying how big a mistake we're quantifying how big a mistake we're quantifying how big a mistake we've made the goal of linear regression we've made the goal of linear regression we've made the goal of linear regression is to adjust the line to make the errors is to adjust the line to make the errors is to adjust the line to make the errors as small as possible we want the line to as small as possible we want the line to as small as possible we want the line to fit the training data as much as it can fit the training data as much as it can fit the training data as much as it can the result is called the line of best the result is called the line of best the result is called the line of best fit we can use this straight line to fit we can use this straight line to fit we can use this straight line to predict how many swimmers will show up predict how many swimmers will show up predict how many swimmers will show up for any temperature but parts of it defy for any temperature but parts of it defy for any temperature but parts of it defy logic logic logic for example super cold days have a for example super cold days have a for example super cold days have a negative number negative number negative number while dangerously hot days have way more while dangerously hot days have way more while dangerously hot days have way more people than the pool can handle to get people than the pool can handle to get people than the pool can handle to get more accurate results we might want to more accurate results we might want to more accurate results we might want to consider more than two features like for consider more than two features like for consider more than two features like for example adding the humidity would turn example adding the humidity would turn example adding the humidity would turn our 2d graph into 3d and our line of our 2d graph into 3d and our line of our 2d graph into 3d and our line of best fit would be more like a plane best fit would be more like a plane best fit would be more like a plane best fit but if we added a fourth best fit but if we added a fourth best fit but if we added a fourth feature like whether it's raining or not feature like whether it's raining or not feature like whether it's raining or not suddenly we can't visualize this anymore suddenly we can't visualize this anymore suddenly we can't visualize this anymore so as we consider more features we add so as we consider more features we add so as we consider more features we add more dimensions to the graph the more dimensions to the graph the more dimensions to the graph the optimization problem gets trickier and optimization problem gets trickier and optimization problem gets trickier and fitting the training data is tougher fitting the training data is tougher fitting the training data is tougher this is where our neural networks come this is where our neural networks come this is where our neural networks come in handy basically by connecting in handy basically by connecting in handy basically by connecting together many simple neurons with together many simple neurons with together many simple neurons with weights a neural network can learn to weights a neural network can learn to weights a neural network can learn to solve complicated problems where the solve complicated problems where the solve complicated problems where the line of best fit becomes a weird line of best fit becomes a weird line of best fit becomes a weird multi-dimensional function multi-dimensional function multi-dimensional function let's give John Green bot an untrained let's give John Green bot an untrained let's give John Green bot an untrained neural network to stick with the same neural network to stick with the same neural network to stick with the same example the input layer of this neural example the input layer of this neural example the input layer of this neural network takes features like temperature network takes features like temperature network takes features like temperature humidity rain and so on and the output humidity rain and so on and the output humidity rain and so on and the output layer predicts the number of swimmers layer predicts the number of swimmers layer predicts the number of swimmers that will come to the pool we're not that will come to the pool we're not that will come to the pool we're not gonna worry about designing the gonna worry about designing the gonna worry about designing the architecture John Green BOTS no network architecture John Green BOTS no network architecture John Green BOTS no network right now let's just focus on the right now let's just focus on the right now let's just focus on the weights he'll start as always by setting weights he'll start as always by setting weights he'll start as always by setting the weights to random numbers like the the weights to random numbers like the the weights to random numbers like the random line on the graph we drew earlier random line on the graph we drew earlier random line on the graph we drew earlier only this time it's not just one random only this time it's not just one random only this time it's not just one random line because he has lots of inputs it's line because he has lots of inputs it's line because he has lots of inputs it's lots of lines that are combined to make lots of lines that are combined to make lots of lines that are combined to make one big messy function overall there's one big messy function overall there's one big messy function overall there's no networks function resembles some no networks function resembles some no networks function resembles some weird multi-dimensional shape that we weird multi-dimensional shape that we weird multi-dimensional shape that we don't really have a name for to train don't really have a name for to train don't really have a name for to train this known network we'll start by giving this known network we'll start by giving this known network we'll start by giving John Green bought a bunch of John Green bought a bunch of John Green bought a bunch of measurements from the past 10 days at measurements from the past 10 days at measurements from the past 10 days at the swimming pool because these are the the swimming pool because these are the the swimming pool because these are the days where we also know the output days where we also know the output days where we also know the output attendance will start with one day where attendance will start with one day where attendance will start with one day where else 80 degrees Fahrenheit 65% humidity else 80 degrees Fahrenheit 65% humidity else 80 degrees Fahrenheit 65% humidity and not raining which will represent and not raining which will represent and not raining which will represent with zero the neurons would do their with zero the neurons would do their with zero the neurons would do their thing by multiplying those features by thing by multiplying those features by thing by multiplying those features by the weights adding the results together the weights adding the results together the weights adding the results together and passing information to the hidden and passing information to the hidden and passing information to the hidden layers into the output neuron has an layers into the output neuron has an layers into the output neuron has an answer what do you think John Green answer what do you think John Green answer what do you think John Green bought just like before there is a bought just like before there is a bought just like before there is a difference between the neural networks difference between the neural networks difference between the neural networks output and the actual swimming pool output and the actual swimming pool output and the actual swimming pool attendance which was recorded as a attendance which was recorded as a attendance which was recorded as a hundred people because we have just one hundred people because we have just one hundred people because we have just one output neuron the difference of 45 output neuron the difference of 45 output neuron the difference of 45 people is the error people is the error people is the error pretty simple and some neural networks pretty simple and some neural networks pretty simple and some neural networks though the output layer may have a lot though the output layer may have a lot though the output layer may have a lot of neurons so the difference between the of neurons so the difference between the of neurons so the difference between the predicted answer and the correct answer predicted answer and the correct answer predicted answer and the correct answer is more than just one number in these is more than just one number in these is more than just one number in these cases the error is represented by what's cases the error is represented by what's cases the error is represented by what's known as a loss function moving forward known as a loss function moving forward known as a loss function moving forward we need to adjust the neural networks we need to adjust the neural networks we need to adjust the neural networks weight so that the next time we give weight so that the next time we give weight so that the next time we give John Green bought similar inputs his John Green bought similar inputs his John Green bought similar inputs his math and final output will be more math and final output will be more math and final output will be more accurate accurate accurate basically we need John Green bot to basically we need John Green bot to basically we need John Green bot to learn from his mistakes a lot like when learn from his mistakes a lot like when learn from his mistakes a lot like when we push the button a supervises learning we push the button a supervises learning we push the button a supervises learning when he had the perception program but when he had the perception program but when he had the perception program but this is a bit trickier because of how this is a bit trickier because of how this is a bit trickier because of how complicated neural networks are to help complicated neural networks are to help complicated neural networks are to help no networks learn scientists and no networks learn scientists and no networks learn scientists and mathematicians came up with an algorithm mathematicians came up with an algorithm mathematicians came up with an algorithm called back propagation of the error or called back propagation of the error or called back propagation of the error or just back propagation for sure just back propagation for sure just back propagation for sure the basic goal is to look at the loss the basic goal is to look at the loss the basic goal is to look at the loss function and then assign blame to function and then assign blame to function and then assign blame to neurons back in the previous layers of neurons back in the previous layers of neurons back in the previous layers of the network some neurons calculations the network some neurons calculations the network some neurons calculations may be more to blame for the air than may be more to blame for the air than may be more to blame for the air than others so the weights will be adjusted others so the weights will be adjusted others so the weights will be adjusted more this information is fed backwards more this information is fed backwards more this information is fed backwards which is where the idea of back which is where the idea of back which is where the idea of back propagation comes from so for example propagation comes from so for example propagation comes from so for example the error from our output neuron will go the error from our output neuron will go the error from our output neuron will go back a layer and adjust the weights that back a layer and adjust the weights that back a layer and adjust the weights that get applied to our hidden layer neuron get applied to our hidden layer neuron get applied to our hidden layer neuron outputs and the error from our hidden outputs and the error from our hidden outputs and the error from our hidden layer neurons will go back a layer to layer neurons will go back a layer to layer neurons will go back a layer to adjust the weights that get applied to adjust the weights that get applied to adjust the weights that get applied to our features remember our goal is to our features remember our goal is to our features remember our goal is to find the best combination of weights to find the best combination of weights to find the best combination of weights to get the lowest error to explain logic get the lowest error to explain logic get the lowest error to explain logic behind optimization with the metaphor behind optimization with the metaphor behind optimization with the metaphor let's send John and green ba on a let's send John and green ba on a let's send John and green ba on a metaphorical journey through the metaphorical journey through the metaphorical journey through the thought-bubble let's imagine that weights in our neural let's imagine that weights in our neural network are like latitude and longitude network are like latitude and longitude network are like latitude and longitude coordinates on the map and the error of coordinates on the map and the error of coordinates on the map and the error of our neural network is the altitude lower our neural network is the altitude lower our neural network is the altitude lower is better John Green bought the Explorer is better John Green bought the Explorer is better John Green bought the Explorer is on a quest to find the lowest point is on a quest to find the lowest point is on a quest to find the lowest point in the deepest Valley the latitude and in the deepest Valley the latitude and in the deepest Valley the latitude and longitude of the lowest point where the longitude of the lowest point where the longitude of the lowest point where the error is the smallest are the weights of error is the smallest are the weights of error is the smallest are the weights of the neural networks global optimal the neural networks global optimal the neural networks global optimal solution but John Green bot has no idea solution but John Green bot has no idea solution but John Green bot has no idea where this valley actually is by where this valley actually is by where this valley actually is by randomly setting the initial weights of randomly setting the initial weights of randomly setting the initial weights of our known Network our known Network our known Network we're basically dumping him in the we're basically dumping him in the we're basically dumping him in the middle of the jungle all he knows is his middle of the jungle all he knows is his middle of the jungle all he knows is his current latitude longitude and altitude current latitude longitude and altitude current latitude longitude and altitude maybe we got lucky and he's on the side maybe we got lucky and he's on the side maybe we got lucky and he's on the side of the deepest Valley but he could also of the deepest Valley but he could also of the deepest Valley but he could also be at the top of the highest mountain be at the top of the highest mountain be at the top of the highest mountain far away the only way to know is to far away the only way to know is to far away the only way to know is to explore because the jungle is so dense explore because the jungle is so dense explore because the jungle is so dense it's hard to see very far the best John it's hard to see very far the best John it's hard to see very far the best John Green bot can do is look around and make Green bot can do is look around and make Green bot can do is look around and make a guess he notices he can descend down a a guess he notices he can descend down a a guess he notices he can descend down a little by moving northeast so he takes a little by moving northeast so he takes a little by moving northeast so he takes a step down and updates his latitude and step down and updates his latitude and step down and updates his latitude and longitude from this new position he longitude from this new position he longitude from this new position he looks around and picks another step that looks around and picks another step that looks around and picks another step that increases his altitude a little more and increases his altitude a little more and increases his altitude a little more and then another and another with every then another and another with every then another and another with every brave step he updates his coordinates brave step he updates his coordinates brave step he updates his coordinates and decreases his altitude eventually and decreases his altitude eventually and decreases his altitude eventually John Green bot looks around and finds John Green bot looks around and finds John Green bot looks around and finds that he can't go down any more he that he can't go down any more he that he can't go down any more he celebrates because it seems like he celebrates because it seems like he celebrates because it seems like he found the lowest point in the deepest found the lowest point in the deepest found the lowest point in the deepest Valley or so he thinks if we look at the Valley or so he thinks if we look at the Valley or so he thinks if we look at the whole map we can see that John Green bot whole map we can see that John Green bot whole map we can see that John Green bot only filmed the bottom of a small Gorge only filmed the bottom of a small Gorge only filmed the bottom of a small Gorge when he ran out of down it's way better when he ran out of down it's way better when he ran out of down it's way better than where he started but it's than where he started but it's than where he started but it's definitely not the lowest point of the definitely not the lowest point of the definitely not the lowest point of the deepest Valley so he just found a local deepest Valley so he just found a local deepest Valley so he just found a local optimal solution where the weights make optimal solution where the weights make optimal solution where the weights make the error relatively small but not the the error relatively small but not the the error relatively small but not the smallest it could be sorry buddy thanks smallest it could be sorry buddy thanks smallest it could be sorry buddy thanks thought-bubble thought-bubble thought-bubble back propagation and learning always back propagation and learning always back propagation and learning always involves lots of little steps and involves lots of little steps and involves lots of little steps and optimization is tricky with any neural optimization is tricky with any neural optimization is tricky with any neural network if we go back to our example of network if we go back to our example of network if we go back to our example of optimization as exploring a map we're optimization as exploring a map we're optimization as exploring a map we're never quite sure if we're headed in the never quite sure if we're headed in the never quite sure if we're headed in the right direction or if we've reached the right direction or if we've reached the right direction or if we've reached the lowest Valley with the smallest error lowest Valley with the smallest error lowest Valley with the smallest error again that's the global optimal solution again that's the global optimal solution again that's the global optimal solution but tricks have been discovered to help but tricks have been discovered to help but tricks have been discovered to help us better navigate for example when we us better navigate for example when we us better navigate for example when we drop and explore somewhere on the map drop and explore somewhere on the map drop and explore somewhere on the map they could be really far from the lowest they could be really far from the lowest they could be really far from the lowest Valley with a giant mountain range in Valley with a giant mountain range in Valley with a giant mountain range in the way so it might be a good idea to the way so it might be a good idea to the way so it might be a good idea to try different random starting points to try different random starting points to try different random starting points to make sure the no network isn't getting make sure the no network isn't getting make sure the no network isn't getting stuck at a local optimal solution or stuck at a local optimal solution or stuck at a local optimal solution or instead of restarting over and over instead of restarting over and over instead of restarting over and over again we could have a team of explorers again we could have a team of explorers again we could have a team of explorers that start from different locations and that start from different locations and that start from different locations and explore the jungle simultaneously this explore the jungle simultaneously this explore the jungle simultaneously this strategy of exploring different strategy of exploring different strategy of exploring different solutions at the same time on the same solutions at the same time on the same solutions at the same time on the same neural network is especially useful when neural network is especially useful when neural network is especially useful when you have a giant computer with lots of you have a giant computer with lots of you have a giant computer with lots of processors and we can even adjust the processors and we can even adjust the processors and we can even adjust the Explorer step size so they can step Explorer step size so they can step Explorer step size so they can step right over small Hills as you try and right over small Hills as you try and right over small Hills as you try and find into sin into a valley this step find into sin into a valley this step find into sin into a valley this step size is called the learning rate and size is called the learning rate and size is called the learning rate and it's how much the neurons weights get it's how much the neurons weights get it's how much the neurons weights get adjusted every time back propagation adjusted every time back propagation adjusted every time back propagation happens we're always looking for more happens we're always looking for more happens we're always looking for more creative ways to explore solutions try creative ways to explore solutions try creative ways to explore solutions try different combinations of weights and different combinations of weights and different combinations of weights and minimize the loss function as we train minimize the loss function as we train minimize the loss function as we train neural networks but even if we use a neural networks but even if we use a neural networks but even if we use a bunch of training data and back bunch of training data and back bunch of training data and back propagation to find the global optimal propagation to find the global optimal propagation to find the global optimal solution we're still only halfway done solution we're still only halfway done solution we're still only halfway done the other half of training is an AI the other half of training is an AI the other half of training is an AI checking whether the system can answer checking whether the system can answer checking whether the system can answer new questions it's easy to solve a new questions it's easy to solve a new questions it's easy to solve a problem we've seen before like taking a problem we've seen before like taking a problem we've seen before like taking a test after studying the answer key we test after studying the answer key we test after studying the answer key we may get an A but we actually didn't may get an A but we actually didn't may get an A but we actually didn't learn much to really test what we learn much to really test what we learn much to really test what we learned we need to solve problems we've learned we need to solve problems we've learned we need to solve problems we've never seen before same goes for neural never seen before same goes for neural never seen before same goes for neural networks this whole time John Green bot networks this whole time John Green bot networks this whole time John Green bot has been training his new network with has been training his new network with has been training his new network with swimming pool data his new network has swimming pool data his new network has swimming pool data his new network has dozens of features like temperature dozens of features like temperature dozens of features like temperature humidity rain day week and wind speed humidity rain day week and wind speed humidity rain day week and wind speed but also grass length number of but also grass length number of but also grass length number of butterflies around the pool and the butterflies around the pool and the butterflies around the pool and the average GPA of the lifeguards more data average GPA of the lifeguards more data average GPA of the lifeguards more data can be better for finding patterns in can be better for finding patterns in can be better for finding patterns in accuracy as long as the computer can accuracy as long as the computer can accuracy as long as the computer can handle it over time back propagation handle it over time back propagation handle it over time back propagation will adjust the neurons weights so that will adjust the neurons weights so that will adjust the neurons weights so that the known networks output matches the the known networks output matches the the known networks output matches the training data remember training data remember training data remember that's called fitting to the training that's called fitting to the training that's called fitting to the training data and with this complicated neural data and with this complicated neural data and with this complicated neural network we're looking for a multi network we're looking for a multi network we're looking for a multi dimensional function and sometimes back dimensional function and sometimes back dimensional function and sometimes back propagation is too good at making a propagation is too good at making a propagation is too good at making a neural network fit to certain data see neural network fit to certain data see neural network fit to certain data see there are lots of coincidental there are lots of coincidental there are lots of coincidental relationships in big datasets like for relationships in big datasets like for relationships in big datasets like for example the divorce rate in Maine may be example the divorce rate in Maine may be example the divorce rate in Maine may be correlated with us correlated with us correlated with us Largent consumption or skin revenue may Largent consumption or skin revenue may Largent consumption or skin revenue may be correlated with the number of people be correlated with the number of people be correlated with the number of people dying by getting trapped in their dying by getting trapped in their dying by getting trapped in their bedsheets neural networks are really bedsheets neural networks are really bedsheets neural networks are really good at finding these kind of good at finding these kind of good at finding these kind of relationships and it can be a big relationships and it can be a big relationships and it can be a big problem because if we give a neuro problem because if we give a neuro problem because if we give a neuro network some new data that doesn't network some new data that doesn't network some new data that doesn't adhere to these silly correlations then adhere to these silly correlations then adhere to these silly correlations then it will probably make some strange it will probably make some strange it will probably make some strange errors that's the danger known as errors that's the danger known as errors that's the danger known as overfitting the easiest way to prevent overfitting the easiest way to prevent overfitting the easiest way to prevent overfitting is to keep the neural overfitting is to keep the neural overfitting is to keep the neural networks simple if we retrain John Green networks simple if we retrain John Green networks simple if we retrain John Green BOTS swimming pool program without data BOTS swimming pool program without data BOTS swimming pool program without data like grass length and number of like grass length and number of like grass length and number of butterflies and we observed that our butterflies and we observed that our butterflies and we observed that our accuracy doesn't change then ignoring accuracy doesn't change then ignoring accuracy doesn't change then ignoring those features is for the best those features is for the best those features is for the best so training a neural network isn't just so training a neural network isn't just so training a neural network isn't just a bunch of math we need to consider how a bunch of math we need to consider how a bunch of math we need to consider how to best represent our various problems to best represent our various problems to best represent our various problems as features and AI systems and to think as features and AI systems and to think as features and AI systems and to think carefully about what mistakes these carefully about what mistakes these carefully about what mistakes these programs might make next time well jump programs might make next time well jump programs might make next time well jump into our very first lab in the course into our very first lab in the course into our very first lab in the course when we'll apply all this knowledge and when we'll apply all this knowledge and when we'll apply all this knowledge and build a neural network together I'll see build a neural network together I'll see build a neural network together I'll see you in the lab crash course AI is you in the lab crash course AI is you in the lab crash course AI is produced in association with PBS Digital produced in association with PBS Digital produced in association with PBS Digital Studios if you wanna help keep crash Studios if you wanna help keep crash Studios if you wanna help keep crash course free for everyone forever you can course free for everyone forever you can course free for everyone forever you can join our community on patreon and if you join our community on patreon and if you join our community on patreon and if you don't learn more about the math behind don't learn more about the math behind don't learn more about the math behind k-means clustering check out this video k-means clustering check out this video k-means clustering check out this video from crash course statistics