This is a three. It's sloppily written sloppily written and rendered at an extremely low extremely low resolution of 28x 28 pixels. But your 28 pixels. But your brain has no trouble recognizing it as a a three. And I want you to take a moment take a moment to appreciate how crazy it is that crazy it is that brains can do this so effortlessly. I this so effortlessly. I mean this, this, and this are also and this are also recognizable as threes. Even though the though the specific values of each pixel is very each pixel is very different from one image to the next, image to the next, the particular light sensitive cells in cells in your eye that are firing when you see see this three are very different from the very different from the ones firing when you see this three. But But something in that crazy smart visual smart visual cortex of yours resolves these as these as representing the same idea while at the idea while at the same time recognizing other images as images as their own distinct ideas. But if I told told you, hey, sit down and write for me a for me a program that takes in a grid of 28x 28 of 28x 28 pixels like this and outputs a single and outputs a single number between 0 and 10, telling you and 10, telling you what it thinks the digit is. While the the task goes from comically trivial to trivial to dauntingly difficult, unless you've been living under a rock, I think I hardly hardly need to motivate the relevance and relevance and importance of machine learning and neural networks to the present and to the present and to the future. But what I want to do here to do here is show you what a neural network what a neural network actually is, assuming no background, and background, and to help visualize what it's doing, not what it's doing, not as a buzzword, but as a piece of math. piece of math. My hope is just that you come away away feeling like the structure itself is itself is motivated and to feel like you know what what it means when you read or you hear about you hear about a neural network, quote unquote, learning. This video is just going to be be devoted to the structure component of component of that. And the following one is going to to tackle learning. What we're going to do we're going to do is put together a neural network that a neural network that can learn to recognize handwritten digits. This is a somewhat classic example for example for introducing the topic. And I'm happy to And I'm happy to stick with the status quo here because status quo here because at the end of the two videos, I want to point you to a couple good resources a couple good resources where you can learn more and where you you can download the code that does this and and play with it on your own computer. on your own computer. There are many many variants of neural many variants of neural networks and in recent years there's years there's been sort of a boom in research towards towards these variants. But in these two these two introductory videos, you and I are just and I are just going to look at the simplest plain at the simplest plain vanilla form with no added frills. This no added frills. This is kind of a necessary prerequisite for a necessary prerequisite for understanding any of the more powerful more powerful modern variants. And trust me, it still trust me, it still has plenty of complexity for us to wrap wrap our minds around. But even in this But even in this simplest form, it can learn to recognize digits, which is a pretty handwritten pretty cool thing for a computer to be able to be able to do. And at the same time, you'll see how you'll see how it does fall short of a couple hopes hopes that we might have for it. for it. As the name suggests, neural networks neural networks are inspired by the brain. But let's the brain. But let's break that down. What are the neurons, What are the neurons, and in what sense are they linked sense are they linked together? Right now, when I say neuron, when I say neuron, all I want you to think about is a thing that holds a number. specifically a specifically a number between zero and one. It's really and one. It's really not more than that. more than that. For example, the network starts with a network starts with a bunch of neurons corresponding to each to each of the 28 * 28 pixels of the input of the input image, which is 784 neurons in total. 784 neurons in total. Each one of these holds a number that that represents the grayscale value of the of the corresponding pixel, ranging from zero for black pixels up to one for white white pixels. This number inside the neuron is inside the neuron is called its activation. And the image you And the image you might have in mind here is that each each neuron is lit up when its activation is is a high number. number. So all of these 784 neurons make up the make up the first layer of our network. Now jumping over to the last layer. This last layer. This has 10 neurons each representing one of each representing one of the digits. The activation in these in these neurons, again, some number that's between 0 and 1, represents how much the the system thinks that a given image given image corresponds with a given digit. There's digit. There's also a couple layers in between called layers in between called the hidden layers, which for the time which for the time being should just be a giant question be a giant question mark for how on earth this process of of recognizing digits is going to be to be handled. In this network, I chose two network, I chose two hidden layers, each one with 16 neurons. one with 16 neurons. And admittedly, that's kind of an of an arbitrary choice to be honest. I chose be honest. I chose two layers based on how I want to to motivate the structure in just a moment. in just a moment. And 16, well, that was just a nice nice number to fit on the screen. In on the screen. In practice, there is a lot of room for for experiment with a specific structure here. The way the network operates, network operates, activations in one layer determine the determine the activations of the next layer. And of next layer. And of course, the heart of the network as an an information processing mechanism comes processing mechanism comes down to exactly how those activations those activations from one layer bring about bring about activations in the next layer. It's meant to be be loosely analogous to how in biological in biological networks of neurons, some groups of groups of neurons firing cause certain others to others to fire. Now, the network I'm showing here network I'm showing here has already been trained to recognize to recognize digits. And let me show you what I mean what I mean by that. It means if you feed in an feed in an image lighting up all 784 neurons of the the input layer according to the brightness the brightness of each pixel in the image, that pattern pattern of activations causes some very specific very specific pattern in the next layer, which causes next layer, which causes some pattern in the one after it, which which finally gives some pattern in the output pattern in the output layer. And the brightest neuron of that brightest neuron of that output layer is the network's choice, so the network's choice, so to speak, for what digit this image what digit this image represents. And before jumping into the math for how math for how one layer influences the next or training works, let's just talk about talk about why it's even reasonable to expect a reasonable to expect a layered structure like this to behave to behave intelligently. What are we expecting here? What is the best hope for what what those middle layers might be doing? be doing? Well, when you or I recognize digits, we we piece together various components. A 9 A 9 has a loop up top and a line on the right. An eight also has a loop up top, loop up top, but it's paired with another loop down with another loop down low. A four basically breaks down into basically breaks down into three specific lines and things like things like that. Now, in a perfect world, we might might hope that each neuron in the second to to last layer corresponds with one of these with one of these subcomponents. That anytime you feed in feed in an image with, say, a loop up top, like up top, like a 9 or an 8, there's some specific specific neuron whose activation is going to be is going to be close to one. And I don't mean this this specific loop of pixels. The hope would pixels. The hope would be that any generally loopy pattern loopy pattern towards the top sets off this neuron. sets off this neuron. That way, going from the third layer to to the last one just requires learning requires learning which combination of subcomponents combination of subcomponents corresponds to which digits. Of course, Of course, that just kicks the problem down the the problem down the road because how would you recognize you recognize these subcomponents or even learn what learn what the right subcomponents should be? And I should be? And I still haven't even talked about how one talked about next. But run with layer influences the with me on this one for a moment. Recognizing Recognizing a loop can also break down into subpros. subpros. One reasonable way to do this would be be to first recognize the various little various little edges that make it up. Similarly, a long long line like the kind you might see in the see in the digits 1 or four or seven. Well, that's that's really just a long edge. Or maybe you you think of it as a certain pattern of of several smaller edges. So maybe our hope So maybe our hope is second layer the neuron in the second layer of the network corresponds with the with the various relevant little edges. Maybe when an image like this one comes in, it comes in, it lights up all of the neurons associated of the neurons associated with around 8 to 10 specific little to 10 specific little edges, which in turn lights up the turn lights up the neurons associated with the upper loop upper loop and a long vertical line, and those vertical line, and those light up the neuron associated with a neuron associated with a nine. Whether or not this is what our our final network actually does is another is another question, one that I'll come back to I'll come back to once we see how to train the network. network. But this is a hope that we might have a sort of goal with the layered structure with the layered structure like this. Moreover, you can imagine how you can imagine how being able to detect edges and patterns detect edges and patterns like this would be really useful for be really useful for other image recognition tasks. And even And even beyond image recognition, there are all are all sorts of intelligent things you might you might want to do that break down into layers layers of abstraction. Parsing speech, for example, involves taking raw audio and audio and picking out distinct sounds which combine to make certain syllables, which syllables, which combine to form words, which combine to words, which combine to make up phrases and more abstract more abstract thoughts, etc. But getting back to how getting back to how any of this actually works, picture works, picture yourself right now designing how exactly how exactly might layer might determine the activations in the next. the next. The goal is to have some mechanism that that could conceivably combine pixels into edges or edges into patterns or patterns into patterns or patterns into digits. And to zoom in on one very on one very specific example, let's say the hope is say the hope is for one particular neuron in the second to pick up on whether or not the layer not the image has an edge in this region here. here. The question at hand is what parameters hand is what parameters should the network have? What dials and have? What dials and knobs should you be able to tweak so so that it's expressive enough to potentially capture this pattern or any or any other pixel pattern or the pattern that or the pattern that several edges can make a loop and other other such things. Well, what we'll do is what we'll do is assign a weight to each one of the the connections between our neuron and neuron and the neurons from the first layer. These layer. These weights are just numbers. Then take all numbers. Then take all of those activations from the first the first layer and compute their weighted sum weighted sum according to these weights. to these weights. I find it helpful to think of these these weights as being organized into a little organized into a little grid of their own. And I'm going to use going to use green pixels to indicate positive weights and red pixels to indicate to indicate negative weights where the brightness of brightness of that pixel is some loose depiction the weights value. Now, if we made the the weights associated with almost all of all of the pixels zero, except for some for some positive weights in this region that we this region that we care about, then taking the weighted sum taking the weighted sum of all the pixel values really just pixel values really just amounts to adding up the values of the the pixel just in the region that we care care about. about. about. And if you really wanted to pick up on pick up on whether there's an edge here, what you edge here, what you might do is have some negative weights have some negative weights associated with the surrounding pixels. Then the sum is largest when those is largest when those middle pixels are bright but the but the surrounding pixels are darker. pixels are darker. When you compute a weighted sum like a weighted sum like this, you might come out with any come out with any number. But for this network, what we this network, what we want is for activations to be some value value between 0 and 1. So a common thing to do is to pump this weighted sum into some some function that squishes the real number real number line into the range between 0 and 1. And and 1. And a common function that does this is that does this is called the sigmoid function, also known also known as a logistic curve. Basically, very Basically, very negative inputs end up close to zero, up close to zero, very positive close to close to one, and it just steadily increases steadily increases around the input zero. So, the activation of the neuron here is neuron here is basically a measure of how positive the of how positive the relevant weighted sum is. weighted sum is. But maybe it's not that you want the the neuron to light up when the weighted sum sum is bigger than zero. Maybe you only want want it to be active when the sum is bigger sum is bigger than say 10. That is you want some bias want some bias for it to be inactive. What we'll do then is just add in some add in some other number like -10 to this weighted -10 to this weighted sum before plugging it through the through the sigmoid squishification function. That squishification function. That additional number is called the bias. So called the bias. So the weights tell you what pixel pattern you what pixel pattern this is layer second layer is picking up on and the bias tells you how tells you how high the weighted sum needs to be before before the neuron starts getting meaningfully active. And that is just one neuron. is just one neuron. Every other neuron in this layer is in this layer is going to be connected to all 784 pixel pixel And each first layer. And each one of those 784 connections has its own own weight associated with it. Also, each Also, each one has some bias, some other number bias, some other number that you add on to the weighted sum sum before squishing it with the sigmoid. the sigmoid. And that's a lot to think about. With With this hidden layer of 16 neurons, that's of 16 neurons, that's a total of 784* total of 784* 16 weights along with 16 biases. And all all of that is just the connections from the the first layer to the second. the second. The connections between the other layers also have a bunch of weights and biases biases associated with them. All said and done, All said and done, this network has almost exactly 13,000 exactly 13,000 total weights and biases. 13,000 knobs 13,000 knobs and dials that can be tweaked and turned turned to make this network behave in different network behave in different ways. So when we talk about learning, we talk about learning, what that's referring to is getting the to is getting the computer to find a valid setting for all all of these many, many numbers so that many numbers so that it'll actually solve the problem at problem at hand. hand. hand. One thought experiment that is at once that is at once fun and kind of horrifying is to imagine imagine sitting down and setting all of these setting all of these weights and biases by hand, purposefully hand, purposefully tweaking the numbers so that the second so that the second layer picks up on edges, the third layer layer picks up on patterns, etc. I personally patterns, etc. I personally find this satisfying rather than just than just treating the network as a total black as a total black box. Because when the network doesn't network doesn't perform the way you anticipate, if anticipate, if you've built up a little bit of a a relationship with what those weights and weights and biases actually mean, you have a have a starting place for experimenting with how to change the structure to improve the structure to improve or when the network does work, but not not for the reasons you might expect. might expect. Digging into what the weights and biases the weights and biases are doing is a good way to challenge challenge your assumptions and really expose the expose the full space of possible solutions. By way, the actual function here is a function here is a little cumbersome to write down, don't down, don't you think? you think? you think? So, let me show you a more notationally notationally compact way that these connections are connections are represented. This is how you'd see it if if you choose to read up more about neural neural networks. Organize all of the activations from one layer into a column layer into a column as a vector. vector. Then, organize all of the weights as a a matrix where each row of that matrix row of that matrix corresponds to the connections between one layer and a particular neuron in the the next layer. What that means is that that means is that the of the activations in the first layer according layer according to these weights corresponds to one of corresponds to one of the terms in the matrix vector product the matrix vector product of everything we have on the left here. By the way, so much of machine learning of machine learning just comes down to having a good grasp grasp of linear algebra. So for any of you who of you who want a nice visual understanding for understanding for matrices and what matrix vector multiplication means, take a look at the a look at the series I did on linear algebra, linear algebra, especially chapter 3. Back to our to our expression, instead of talking about adding the bias to each one of these these values independently, we represent it by it by organizing all those biases into a into a vector and adding the entire vector to the entire vector to the previous matrix vector product. Then product. Then as a final step, I'll wrap a sigmoid sigmoid around the outside here. And what that's here. And what that's supposed to represent is that you're that you're going to apply the sigmoid function to the sigmoid function to each specific component of the resulting the resulting vector inside. vector inside. vector inside. So once you write down this weight write down this weight matrix and these vectors as their own vectors as their own symbols, you can communicate the full the full transition of activations from one layer one layer to the next in an extremely tight and and neat little expression. And this makes this makes the relevant code both a lot simpler and and a lot faster since many libraries many libraries optimize the heck out of matrix of matrix multiplication. multiplication. multiplication. Remember Remember Remember how earlier I said these neurons are said these neurons are simply things that hold numbers? Well, numbers? Well, of course, the specific numbers that numbers that they hold depends on the image you feed feed in. in. in. So, it's actually more accurate to think more accurate to think of each neuron as a function. One that that takes in the outputs of all the neurons neurons in the previous layer and spits out a a number between 0 and 1. Really, the and 1. Really, the entire network is just a function. one just a function. one that takes in 784 numbers as an input input and spits out 10 numbers as an output. output. It's an absurdly complicated function, one that involves 13,000 parameters in parameters in the forms and biases and biases that pick up on certain patterns and on certain patterns and which involves iterating many matrix vector products and the sigmoid squishification function. But it's just a function nonetheless. And in a way, And in a way, it's kind of reassuring that it looks reassuring that it looks complicated. I mean, if it were any if it were any simpler, what hope would we have that it it could take on the challenge of challenge of recognizing digits? And how does it take how does it take on that challenge? How does this network How does this network learn the appropriate weights and biases and biases just by looking at data? Well, that's at data? Well, that's what I'll show in the next video. And And I'll also dig a little more into what what this particular network we're seeing is seeing is really doing. really doing. really doing. Now is the point I suppose I should say I should say subscribe to stay notified about when about when that video or any new videos come out. out. But realistically, most of you don't you don't actually receive notifications from receive notifications from YouTube, do you? Maybe more honestly, I Maybe more honestly, I should say subscribe so that the neural so that the neural networks that underly YouTube's that underly YouTube's recommendation algorithm are primed to believe that you want to see content want to see content from this channel get recommended to recommended to you. Anyway, stay posted for more. Thank posted for more. Thank you very much to everyone supporting everyone supporting these videos on Patreon. I've been a Patreon. I've been a little slow to progress in the in the probability series this summer, but I'm but I'm jumping back into it after this project. it after this project. So, patrons, you can look out for can look out for updates there. updates there. updates there. To close things off here, I have with me have with me Leysa Lee, who did her PhD work on the work on the theoretical side of deep learning and learning and who currently works at a venture capital at a venture capital firm called Amplify Partners, who kindly who kindly provided some of the funding for this the funding for this video. So, Leysa, one thing I think we we should quickly bring up is this sigmoid up is this sigmoid function. As I understand it, early it, early networks used this to squish the squish the relevant weighted sum into that interval that interval between 0 and one. You know, kind of of motivated by this biological analogy biological analogy of neurons either being inactive or active. or active. Exactly. But relatively few modern networks actually use sigmoid anymore. That's kind of old school, right? school, right? Yeah. Or rather, relu seems to be much much easier to train. train. And relu relu stands for rectified for rectified linear unit. linear unit. linear unit. Yes. It's this kind of function where kind of function where you're just taking a max of zero and a zero and a where a is given by what you were were explaining in the video. And what this video. And what this was sort of motivated from, I think, was was a partially by a biological analogy with a biological analogy with how neurons would either be activated or either be activated or not. And so if it passes a certain certain threshold, it would be the identity the identity function, but if it did not, then it it would just not be activated. So be zero. zero. So it's kind of a simplification. Using of a simplification. Using sigmoids didn't help training or it was training or it was very difficult to train at at some train at at some point. and people just tried ReLU and it it happened to work very well for these very well for these incredibly um deep uh neural networks. neural networks. All right, thank you Alicia.